If Jun was this far gone on her, Shoko Sekine had to be pretty damn good-looking. Smart, too. Young, on her own, but determined to keep to the straight and narrow. Not drifting toward hostessing like so many girls did these days, even if the nightclub world—the "water trade," as it was known—did mean easy money. No, she had principles.

"Do you think maybe she didn't want to deal with this, since your parents disapproved of her anyway? So she just pulled out?" Honma bit his lip. He'd almost said "gave up."

Darkness welled up in Jun's eyes. They call them "the windows of the soul"; at the moment it was like peering into a warehouse where not a single light had been left on.

"Got any ideas about her disappearance, then?"

For a long time Jun refused to speak. Makoto, a bath towel draped over his shoulder, peeked into the room. Honma shot him a look that said, "Stay out." Makoto nodded and slipped back around the corner.

"Listen ... this isn't a cheap novel we're talking about here!" Jun said defensively

"Fine, then. You know of a definite reason? Did she send you a note?"

Jun shook his head. "She didn't leave anything behind. I only know what I've pieced together. And it's not the whole story, by any means."

"What've you got, then?" Honma's words were more a sigh than a question.

Jun started explaining, his story coming out in a rush. "Over New Year's, we—the two of us—went shopping. The company had offered us some cheap housing and we'd decided to take it, so we'd gone out to buy furniture and curtains and things."

"Right."

"Well, anyway, after buying all that stuff, we decided to look at some clothes, and she bought herself a sweater. She was about to pay in cash, when she discovered she was running a little short." Jun paused and gazed up at the ceiling. "Eventually I ended up paying, as I'd intended to all along. That was when I learned Shoko didn't have even one credit card to her name, which came as a bit of a surprise.



Now, our bank started up a credit service not long ago and of course we have a new accounts quota. But I don't like mixing business with private matters, so I never pulled that how-about-a-credit-card routine with her—or with any of my friends, for that matter."

And yet his boss valued him at the new accounts desk. He must really have a knack for drumming up customers.

"So that same day, we sat down and had a little talk. With all the preparations, we were bound to make a lot of purchases from that point on. But the two of us might not be together each and every time, and it'd be dangerous for Shoko to carry around lots of cash. So I told her, I'll go ahead and get you a card, okay? And anyway, once we got married and she changed her name, we'd been thinking we'd keep the bank account she has now and use it for our daily expenses. Because I'd still need my own account and my own card, of course, for expenses."

Is that how young couples managed their affairs today? Traditionally, the wife was the one who took charge of a couple's joint finances. Jun, it seemed, wanted to be the breadwinner, but had no intention of simply handing over his pay.

"Shoko agreed. So we met again the next day and I brought her the application form for her to fill out, then and there." He had then forwarded the form to the bank's credit card subsidiary. "Usually it takes about a month. But I have this friend there ... You see, banks' subsidiary credit card companies are full of 'outward bound' former employees—retirement-age senior clerks, people who are incompetent but who've been around too long to fire, staffers pulled from bank duty for one reason or another. Well, one of them, a guy named Tanaka, joined the bank at the same time as me." Jun frowned defensively. "He's real bright, only he got sort of wound too tight at one point. Maybe he was too smart. Well, he went a bit off the deep end and found himself temporarily shifted over to the credit card side of things."