1


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Elevator, Soundlessness, Overweight


			The elevator continued its extremely gradual ascent. At least I thought it was ascending, but I couldn’t be sure. The slowness obliterated all sense of direction. Maybe it was descending—or doing nothing. I had simply reached the easiest conclusion based on the immediate situation: the elevator must be ascending. This was just a guess. I had no evidence at all. It might have gone up twelve flights, down three flights, and circled the earth—I couldn’t tell.

			This elevator was different in every way from the cheap, no-frills, barely evolved well bucket in my apartment house. The two were so different I could hardly believe both were mechanical devices that had the same machinery made for the same purpose with the same name. They were as far apart from each other as it was conceivable for two elevators to be.

			First was the question of size. This elevator was big enough to serve as a cozy office. You could outfit it with a desk, a locker, a filing cabinet, and a kitchenette, and you’d probably still have room to spare for three camels and a medium-size palm tree.

			Second came hygiene. It was as immaculate as a brand-new coffin. The walls and ceiling were made of bright, shiny, utterly unblemished stainless steel, the floor covered with a shaggy moss-green carpet.

			Third was its almost frightening silence. When I entered, the doors glided shut soundlessly (literally, making no sound at all), and all sound ceased from that moment on. You couldn’t tell if the elevator was sitting still or moving. Still waters run deep.

			Another point was the absence of most of the equipment that normal elevators should have. First, there was no panel fitted with buttons and switches—no buttons for choosing your floor, no buttons for opening and closing the doors, no emergency button, nothing. Which made me feel utterly defenseless. Not only were the buttons missing, but there were no lights showing what floor you were on, no plate listing the elevator’s capacity or safety precautions or the name of the manufacturer. If there was an emergency exit, I couldn’t tell where it was. No, it was an absolute coffin. There was no way an elevator like this could have received a fire-department permit. Elevators were supposed to have certain rules and regulations.

			Staring at the four blank stainless-steel walls around me, I recalled a great escape I had seen Houdini perform in a movie when I was a kid. Wrapped in several lengths of rope and chains, he had been stuffed into a big trunk, which then had been wound around with a heavy chain and dropped over Niagara Falls or frozen in the North Sea. I took a slow, deep breath and calmly compared my situation with Houdini’s. I had the advantage of not being tied up, but the disadvantage of not knowing the trick.

			Far from knowing the trick, I didn’t even know if the elevator was moving or not. I tried clearing my throat, but the sound that came out of me was very strange. It sounded less like a throat clearing and more like a soft lump of clay being hurled against a flat concrete wall. I couldn’t believe my own body had made that sound. I tried clearing my throat again with the same result, so I gave up clearing my throat.

			I stood there stock-still for a very long time, but the doors wouldn’t open. The elevator and I could have been the subjects of a still-life painting, Man and Elevator. My uneasiness increased minute by minute.

			The elevator might have broken down, or the elevator operator—assuming there was such a person—might have forgotten that I was on board. That happens to me sometimes: a person will forget that I exist. But in either case, I was sealed inside this stainless-steel compartment. I listened hard for any possible sound, but nothing reached my ears. I pressed an ear against a stainless-steel wall, but still I heard no sound. All I did was leave a white ear shape on the wall. The elevator seemed to be a special metal box made expressly to absorb every kind of sound. I tried whistling “Danny Boy,” but what came out was like the sigh of a dog with late-stage pneumonia.

			Giving up, I decided to lean against a wall and kill time by counting the change in my pocket. For someone in my line of work, though, such “killing of time” was an important kind of training, like a professional boxer’s constant squeezing of rubber balls, not time killing in the proper sense. Only through repeated action was it possible to even out a tendency toward lopsidedness.

			I always made it a point to carry a decent amount of change in my pants pockets: hundred-yen coins and five-hundred-yen coins in my right pocket and fifty-yen coins and ten-yen coins in my left pocket. I carried one-yen and five-yen coins in my hip pocket, but I made it a rule never to use them in calculations. I would shove my hands into my right and left pockets simultaneously, and while counting the total value of the hundred-yen and five-hundred-yen coins with my right hand, I would count the total value of the fifty- and ten-yen coins with my left.

			This kind of calculating must be hard to imagine for people who have never done it, and in fact it is quite difficult at first. You perform separate calculations with the right and left brains and bring the two together at the end like joining the two sides of a split watermelon. It rarely works until you’re used to it.

			I can’t say for sure that I’m actually using the right and left brains separately like this. A professional brain physiologist—which I am not—might describe the procedure in different terms, but I can say that it feels as if I’m using my right and left brains separately when I am doing calculations. And the fatigue I feel afterward is very different in nature from the fatigue that follows ordinary calculating. So it’s just more convenient to think about it as though I’m doing right-pocket calculations with my right brain and left-pocket calculations with my left brain.

			I suspect I may be more pragmatic than most people in the way I think about the things and events and beings in the world, not so much because I have a personality that views everything in terms of their convenience and usefulness (although I recognize that I do have such a pragmatic streak) but because there are so many obvious cases in which a pragmatic grasp of things comes closer than a conventional interpretation to an understanding of the essence of those things.

			For example, how much of a problem would it be on the everyday level to think of the earth not as a spherical body but as a gigantic coffee table? This is an extreme example, of course: I’m not suggesting that we reshape everything arbitrarily this way. But it’s a fact that taking a pragmatic view of the earth as a gigantic coffee table would totally eliminate the vexing little problems that arise from thinking of it as a globe—such basically useless concepts as gravity, the international dateline, and the equator. How many occasions are there in the life of an ordinary human being when he has to deal with the problem of the equator?

			And so it is that I try my best to view everything pragmatically. I believe that the world as we know it has come into being full of possibilities—infinite possibilities—and choosing among those possibilities should be, to some extent, left to the individual human beings who comprise the world. The world is a coffee table made of condensed possibilities.

			Now to return to the previous subject. Performing parallel computations with the right and left hands is by no means simple. Even I took a long time to master it. Once one does master the technique, however, one cannot easily lose the ability. It’s like bicycling or swimming. Which does not mean that you can dispense with practice. Only through constant practice can you improve and refine your ability. This, then, is why I always make sure to keep change in my pockets and use any spare time I have to perform calculations.

			That day I had three 500-yen coins, eighteen 100-yen coins, seven 50-yen coins, and sixteen 10-yen coins in my pockets for a total of 3,810 yen. No trouble at all. A calculation like this was easier than counting the number of fingers on my hands. Satisfied, I leaned against a stainless-steel wall and stared at the doors in front of me. They were still not opening.

			I had no idea why elevator doors would stay closed for such a long time. But after thinking about it a little, I concluded that I could safely reject both the mechanical-breakdown theory and the inattentive-operator theory because both were unrealistic. Of course, I am not saying that mechanical breakdowns and official inattention could never happen in reality. Quite the contrary: I am well aware that such accidents occur all the time in the real world. What I want to say is that in an exceptional reality—by which I mean, of course, in this ridiculously smooth-surfaced elevator—the unexceptional can be eliminated for all practical purposes as paradoxically exceptional. Is it conceivable that people inattentive enough to neglect its mechanical maintenance or to forget to operate it after having allowed a building visitor to board it would have built such an eccentrically elaborate elevator?

			The answer is, of course, no.

			They would never do such a thing.

			So far, they had been absolutely hypervigilant, concerned with every little detail as if they measured each step they took with a ruler. When I entered the building, I was stopped by two security guards, asked whom I wished to see, had my name checked against a list of scheduled visitors, had my driver’s license examined and my identity verified on the central computer, had my body scanned with a metal detector, and only then was I cooped up in this elevator. Visitors to the national mint were not subjected to such rigorous investigation. It was inconceivable that, after doing all that, they would suddenly lose their scrupulous attention at this stage.

			The only remaining possibility, then, was that they had deliberately placed me in this situation. They didn’t want me to be able to tell anything about the elevator’s movement. Which is why they were moving it so slowly I couldn’t tell whether it was going up or down. They might have installed a security camera on it, too. The front security office had had a bank of TV monitors, and I wouldn’t have been surprised if one of them showed the elevator’s interior.

			I thought about searching for a camera lens to pass the time, but even if I found one, there was nothing to be gained from that. I’d probably just make them more suspicious, in response to which they might slow the elevator down even more. I didn’t want that to happen. I was late for my appointment as it was.

			I decided not to do anything special but to stay relaxed. I was here to perform my properly assigned task, nothing more. There was nothing to be frightened of, no need to tense up.

			I leaned against the wall, shoved my hands in my pockets, and counted my change again. 3,750 yen. No trouble at all, finished in the blink of an eye.

			3,750 yen?

			A different result.

			I had made a mistake.

			I felt my palms begin to sweat. I hadn’t made a single mistake calculating the change in my pockets in the past three years. Not one. Any way you looked at it, this had to be a bad sign. I would have to recover any lost territory before the bad sign could emerge as a full-fledged disaster.

			I closed my eyes and emptied out my left and right brains the way you wash off eyeglass lenses. Then I pulled my hands out of my pockets and spread them open to let the palms dry, completing these preparatory actions with all the mastery of Henry Fonda readying himself for a gunfight in Warlock. Not that it matters, but Warlock is one of my favorite movies.

			Once I was sure my palms were dry, I shoved my hands into my pockets again and started my third calculation. If the third total matched either of the other two, there was no problem. Everybody makes mistakes. I had to admit that my unusual situation had my nerves on edge, and I had been feeling a touch overconfident, which explained my elementary error. Anyhow, confirming the correct figure: that should save me. Before I could reach the point of salvation, however, the elevator doors opened. Without the slightest warning or sound, the doors slid open to either side.

			Because I was concentrating so hard on my pocket change, I didn’t realize at first that the doors had opened. To put it a little more precisely, my eyes saw that the doors had opened, but for a while I was unable to grasp what that meant in concrete terms. What it meant, of course, was that the two spaces the closed doors had been keeping apart were now joined together. It also meant, simultaneously, that the elevator had arrived at its destination.

			I stopped moving my fingers in my pockets and glanced out through the open doors. Outside was a corridor, and standing in the corridor was a young woman—a fat young woman in a pink suit and pink high heels. The fabric of her suit was beautifully tailored and smooth, and her face was just as smooth. She looked at me for a moment as if to confirm that I was the right person, and then she nodded smartly as if to say, “This way, please.” I gave up counting my change, pulled my hands from my pockets, and stepped out of the elevator. As soon as I was outside, the doors closed behind me.

			Standing in the corridor, I turned to view my surroundings but saw nothing that might tell me about the situation in which I found myself. All I knew was that the space seemed to be the corridor of a building, but a school kid would have known that much.

			The building’s interior was almost weirdly plain. Like the elevator, it was fashioned of high-quality—but featureless—materials. The floors were of glossy polished marble, the walls white with a yellowish tinge like my morning muffins. Both sides of the corridor were lined with solid, heavy wooden doors, on each of which was mounted a metal number plate, though the numbers themselves seemed completely random. After 936 came 1213, which was followed by 26. Nobody numbers rooms like that. It was crazy.

			The young woman said almost nothing to me. Her mouth formed the words “This way, please,” but her voice made no sound. Before my current job, I had spent two months in a course on lipreading, so I could just manage to tell what she was saying. At first, though, I thought there might be something wrong with my ears. What with the soundlessness of the elevator and the odd way my throat clearing and whistling had sounded to me, I had no confidence at all in my hearing.

			I tried clearing my throat again. The sound I made was still on the quiet side, but it was a lot more normal than when I had cleared my throat in the elevator. This came as a relief and gave me back some confidence in my hearing. I’m all right, I thought, there’s nothing wrong with my ears: it’s her speaking that’s the problem.

			I walked behind her. Her spike heels echoed down the empty corridor like a rock quarry in the afternoon. Her stockinged calves reflected clearly on the marble.

			She was round—young and beautiful but round. It was odd that a beautiful young woman should be so round. Walking behind her, I kept my eyes fixed on her—her neck, her arms, her legs. A rich layer of flesh covered her entire body like mounds of silent snow that had fallen all night long.

			I get confused whenever I’m with a young, beautiful fat woman, though I have no idea why. Maybe it’s because I can’t help imagining what she does with food. I look at her, and images arise in my mind of her nibbling that last sprig of watercress on her plate or fondly swiping a piece of bread through her last drop of butter cream sauce. It’s beyond my control. And when it happens, like acid corroding metal, my head fills with scenes of her eating and becomes useless for performing other functions.

			Ordinary fat women are no problem for me. An ordinary fat woman is like a cloud in the sky, just floating up there unconnected with me. But a young, beautiful fat woman is a different story. I’m forced to adopt an attitude toward her because I might end up sleeping with her. That’s probably what confuses me. It’s no easy matter to sleep with a woman when your mind is not functioning properly.

			This is not to say that I dislike fat women. Confusion and disliking are two different things. I’ve slept with a number of beautiful, young fat women in my life, and overall, these have not been bad experiences. When confusion is guided in a good direction, it can lead to beautiful results that are ordinarily unobtainable. Sometimes, of course, things don’t go well. Sex is an extremely delicate act. It’s not like going to the department store on Sunday to buy a thermos bottle. There are differences in fat distribution from one beautiful, young fat woman to the next, some that guide me in a good direction and others that leave me superficially confused.

			In that sense, sleeping with a fat woman is a challenge to me. Modes of human fatness are as varied as modes of human death.

			These were pretty much my thoughts as I followed the beautiful, young fat woman down the corridor. She had a white scarf wrapped around the collar of her chic pink suit. From her fleshy earlobes hung rectangular gold earrings that glittered like signal lights as she walked. Her overall movements were light for someone so round. Of course, she might have been wearing tight-fitting underwear or something that firmed and flattered her figure, but even taking that possibility into account, the swaying of her hips was nice and tight. I liked her looks. She was my kind of fat.

			Not to make excuses, but I don’t like that many women. If anything, I tend not to like them. So if I do happen to like one, I feel a need to put that liking to a test. Is my good feeling for her the real thing? And if it is real, I want to make sure in my own special way how it’s going to function.

			With this in mind, I caught up to her and apologized for having arrived eight or nine minutes late.

			“I didn’t know the check-in would take so long,” I said, “or that the elevator would be so slow. I arrived at the front door ten minutes early.”

			She gave me a curt nod as if to say, “Yes, I know.” The scent of cologne drifted over to me from the nape of her neck. It was the kind of smell you would get standing in a melon field on a summer morning and gave me a strange feeling, an oddly mismatched but nostalgic sensation as if two utterly different memories had come together in some unknown part of my brain. I get that feeling sometimes, mostly from particular smells. I can’t explain why this happens.

			“Very long corridor, isn’t it?” I said to her to make small talk. She glanced at me as we continued to walk along. I guessed she must be twenty or twenty-one. She had clear features, a broad forehead and beautiful skin.

			“Proust,” she said, looking straight at me. Not that she actually pronounced the word. I just felt that her lips moved that way. She made no more sound than she had earlier, not even the sound of expelling breath, as though she were speaking to me from the other side of a thick piece of glass.

			Proust?

			“Marcel Proust?” I asked her.

			She gave me a mystified look and repeated the word “Proust.” I gave up and retreated to my original position, where, as I continued to walk along behind her, I racked my brains in search of other words she might have pronounced with lips that seemed to say “Proust.” The best I could come up with were Japanese nonsense phrases I muttered to myself, “uruudoshi,” “tsurushiido,” and “kuroi udo,” but none of them fit the “Proust” shape exactly, and there was no chance she could have said “intercalary year” or “dangling well” or “black stem.” I was pretty sure she had said “Proust,” but I had no idea what link there could have been between Marcel Proust and this long corridor.

			Maybe she had cited Marcel Proust as a metaphor for a long corridor? But even granting that possibility, wouldn’t such a mental leap have been too wild, such a choice of words too inconsiderate? I might have understood it if she had cited the long corridor as a metaphor for Proust’s complete works, but the reverse would have been too strange.

			A corridor as long as Marcel Proust?

			Whatever, I just kept following her down the long corridor. And it really was a long corridor. We turned several corners, went up and down some short stairways with no more than five or six steps each, and walked maybe five or six times farther than we could have in an ordinary building. Or possibly we were walking back and forth through a section intended to deceive the eye like an Escher drawing. No matter how far we walked, though, the surrounding view never changed: marble floors, eggshell walls, random room numbers, wooden doors with stainless-steel knobs, and not one window. She kept the clicking of her heels echoing down the corridor at the same regular rhythm, and I made a slapping sound like melted rubber as I followed along in my running shoes. Mine was such a sticky slap-slap-slapping I began to worry that the bottoms of my shoes were actually melting. This was the first time in my life I had ever walked on a marble floor in running shoes, so I had no way of judging if the sound was normal or not. I imagined it must be half normal and half abnormal—like everything else in this place.

			I was concentrating so hard on the sound of my running shoes, I didn’t notice when she came to a sudden stop, and I bumped against her, chest first. Her back felt nice and fluffy, like a well-formed rain cloud, and the nape of her neck had that melon-field cologne smell. The impact of having me run into her sent her pitching forward, but I instantly grabbed her shoulders and pulled her upright.

			“Sorry,” I said, “my mind was elsewhere.”

			She looked at me with a slight blush on her cheeks. I couldn’t be sure, but she didn’t seem angry. “Tassel,” she said, and “sela.” Of course, she did not actually say these things. As I keep pointing out, her lips moved that way.

			“Tassel?” I said as if talking to myself. “Sela?”

			“Sela,” she repeated with conviction.

			It sounded like Turkish to me, the only problem being that I had never heard a word of Turkish spoken. Which meant it was probably not Turkish. I was growing more and more confused, so I gave up any hope of speaking with her. My lipreading skills were still quite primitive. Lipreading is a subtle art, not something you can master in two months of adult-education classes.

			The young woman took a small oval electronic key from her jacket pocket and pressed it against the lock of door number 728, which opened with a click. The device was obviously a well-made one.

			She pushed the door open and, standing in the doorway, said, “Somto, sela.”

			Of course I nodded and walked right in.





2


			End of the World


			The Golden Beasts


			When autumn arrived, their bodies would be covered in long, golden hair—golden in the purest sense of the word. No other color of any kind could interpose itself amongst the gold. Their golden color came into the world as golden and existed in the world as golden. In the vast space between the whole sky and the whole earth, they had turned the unadulterated color of gold.

			Back when I first came to the town—in spring—the beasts had been clothed in short fur of many different colors—black, auburn, white, reddish-brown, and some a dappled combination of hues. Wrapped in their hides of varying colors, the beasts roamed in silence across the young, green earth as if swept along by the shifting breezes. They were serene, almost meditative, animals. Even their breathing had the stillness of morning mist. They chewed on the green grass soundlessly, and when they tired of grazing, they would fold their legs and lower themselves to the ground for brief naps.

			Spring passed, summer ended, and early autumn breezes were beginning to ripple the river’s still pools in the newly transparent daylight when the changes in the beasts’ appearance became apparent. The golden hairs showed up sparsely at first, like out-of-season plants that had sprouted by accident, but soon they changed to numberless antennae that surrounded and finally concealed the short fur, covering every bit of the animals’ bodies in brilliant gold. The entire ritual took only a week from beginning to end and happened virtually simultaneously for all the animals. Every single one of them had been transformed into a golden beast by week’s end. When the morning sun rose and made the world newly golden, autumn descended on the earth.

			The single long horn that rose from the middle of each beast’s forehead was a pliant white. So slender—even fragile-looking—was it that it seemed to be not so much a horn as a sliver of bone that had chanced to burst through the skin and become fixed in place. With the exceptions of their horns’ whiteness and the blue of their eyes, the beasts had become perfectly golden in color. As if trying out their new costumes, they would repeatedly raise and lower their heads and thrust their horn tips up toward the high autumn sky. Then they would dip their hooves into the increasingly cold stream and stretch their necks up to devour the red autumn berries on the overhanging trees.



* * *



			—

			As blue evening shadows began to fall over the streets of the town, I used to climb a watchtower in the western wall and observe Gatekeeper’s ceremonial gathering of the beasts. He would bring them in by blowing one long note and three short notes on his ram’s horn—a fixed pattern. I would close my eyes whenever I heard the horn and let its soft tones physically work their way into me. The sound of the horn was not like any other. It would drift through the lingering twilight of the town’s streets like a blue-tinged transparent fish, immersing everything in its faint reverberations—the cobblestones, the houses’ stone siding, and the stone wall that lined the road along the river—and spread to every last corner of the town as if slipping through an invisible fault in time enveloped by the atmosphere.

			When the notes of the horn resounded through the town, all thousand-plus beasts would raise their heads at the same moment as if together facing ancient memories. Some were languidly chewing Scotch broom leaves, others were tapping their hooves on the cobblestone streets where they lay, others were just waking from naps in the day’s last pools of sunlight, but all stopped what they were doing to stretch their necks aloft and look toward the sound of the horn.

			Everything stopped in that instant. The only thing moving was their golden hair stirring in the evening breeze. I had no idea what they were thinking or what their eyes were fixed on just then. They kept utterly still, their heads cocked at the same angle and turned in the one direction as they stared into space and listened to the sound of the horn. And when the last of the lingering reverberations of the horn were absorbed completely into the pale twilight, they all stood and started walking in the same direction as if recalling something. The momentary spell was broken, and the town was filled with the clopping of the beasts’ hooves, a sound that always made me imagine millions of tiny bubbles boiling up from deep beneath the earth. The bubbles would fill the streets, climb up the houses’ fences, and even conceal the town’s clock tower.

			But this was a mere evening fantasy. As soon as I opened my eyes, the bubbles would vanish. They were just the sound of the beasts’ hooves, and the town was the same town as always. The line of beasts flowed like a river through the town’s winding, stone-paved streets. No single animal took the lead or directed the flow. They just traced the line of the silent river with eyes cast down and shoulders shaking. Still, there seemed to be a solid bond of intimately shared memory tying one animal to the next that was invisible but undeniable.

			Approaching from the north, they crossed the Old Bridge, merged with the line of beasts coming from the east along the river’s south bank, and together they followed the canal through the factory district, heading west through the foundry’s gallery and past the foot of West Hill. Waiting on the hillside for the column to arrive were the beasts who could not stray far from the gate: the elderly and the juveniles. Together they turned north, crossed West Bridge, and proceeded left to the gate.

			When the first of the beasts arrived at the gate, Gatekeeper would open it. Judging from the thick horizontal and vertical iron reinforcing plates attached to it, the massive gate was obviously strong and heavy. It was four or five meters tall and topped with a dense nest of pointed nails that would prevent anyone from climbing over it. Gatekeeper effortlessly pulled the heavy gate inward and let the assembled beasts out. He would open only one of the two thick panels. The left-side panel always remained locked in place. Once the last of the beasts had passed through, Gatekeeper would close the panel and lower the bolt.

			To my knowledge, the western gate was the only way in or out of the town, which was surrounded by a massive wall some seven or eight meters high. Only birds could pass over the wall.

			Each morning Gatekeeper would open the gate again, blow his horn, and let the beasts back inside. Once they were all in, he would close the gate and lower the bolt as before.

			“I don’t really have to lock it,” Gatekeeper explained to me once. “It’s so heavy, nobody else can open it, not even with help. I just lock it because that’s the rule.”

			Gatekeeper pulled his woolen hat almost down to his eyebrows and stopped talking. He was a big man, bigger than I had ever seen before. His dense build was obvious at a glance, as if his shirt and jacket would pop off him if he flexed his muscles. Every once in a while, though, he would suddenly close his eyes and sink into a silence as huge as himself. I couldn’t tell whether this was a symptom of some kind of mental depression or simply the interruption of an internal physical function. In either case, whenever such a silence would overtake him, all I could do was wait patiently until he returned to consciousness. Then he would slowly open his eyes and fix them on me for a long time with a dazed expression, rubbing his fingers together on his lap as if struggling to recall why I was there.

			“Why do you let all the beasts out in the evening and back in again in the morning?” I asked Gatekeeper when his consciousness returned.

			His eyes were devoid of feeling as he stared at me for a while.

			“It’s the rule,” he said. “I do it that way because that’s the way it has to be done. Like the sun rising in the east and setting in the west.”



* * *



			—

			When he was not operating the gate, Gatekeeper seemed to spend most of his time maintaining his blades. Lined up in his gatehouse, he had a varied collection of large and small hatchets, adzes, and knives, which he would sharpen with great care on whetstones whenever he had a spare moment. The honed edges always gave off an eerie, frozen-white gleam which, to me, felt not so much like reflected light as the blades’ own inner luminescence.

			Whenever I stood there looking at the row of sharp tools, Gatekeeper would watch me carefully, a satisfied smile playing on his lips. “Be careful,” he would say, pointing at the lined-up blades with a finger like a gnarled tree root, “you could get cut just touching one of these. They’re a lot better-made than the things you can buy anywhere for so much a pile. I forged each one of these individually. I used to be a blacksmith, so I know what I’m doing. I take good care of them, too, and they all have perfect balance. It’s not easy to choose the perfect handle to match the weight of the blade. Go ahead, pick one up and see. But don’t touch the blade.”

			From among the tools displayed on a table, I picked up the smallest adze and brandished it through the air a few times. It reacted sharply, like a well-trained hunting dog, to the slightest flick of the wrist—or just the thought of a flick, slicing through space with a distinct swish. No wonder Gatekeeper was proud of his work.

			“I made the handle, too. Carved it out of ten-year-old ash. Different handle makers like different wood, but I like ten-year-old ash. A younger tree or a bigger one is no good. Ten years is just right: strong, moist, and springy. There’s plenty of good ash in the Eastern Forest.”

			“What do you use all these blades for?”

			“Lots of things,” Gatekeeper said. “Especially in winter. You’ll see. We have long winters here.”



* * *



			—

			Outside the gate was a place set aside for the beasts. They slept there at night. They could also drink from the stream that flowed by. Beyond the stream stretched Apple Wood, like the open ocean, as far as the eye could see.

			The western wall had three watchtowers built into it, and you could climb them using a ladder. Each tower had a simple roof to keep the rain off, and you could look down at the beasts from windows fitted with iron bars.

			“You’re the only person who watches the beasts,” Gatekeeper said to me. “It’s not surprising, though. You just got here. Once you’ve lived here for a while and really settled in, you won’t find them so interesting. You’ll be like everybody else. Except for the first week of spring.”

			Gatekeeper explained that lots of people climbed the towers during one week at the beginning of spring to watch the beasts fight. Only during that period—when they were molting and the females were about to give birth—did the males become ferocious to a degree unimaginable from their usual docile nature and begin to inflict terrible wounds on each other, bringing a new order and new life from the massive pools of blood they shed on the ground.

			In autumn, though, the beasts would quietly crouch down, each in its own place, and let their long, golden coats gleam in the evening sunlight. They were like sculptures fixed to the earth, unmoving, their heads held high as they waited for the last rays of the setting sun to sink into the sea of apple trees. Once the sun was down and their bodies were enveloped in the night’s blue shadows, each beast would lower its head, lay its single white horn on the ground, and close its eyes.

			And so a day in the town would end.





3


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Rain Slicker, Murks, Brain Wash


			She showed me into a big, bare room. The walls were white, the ceiling was white, and the carpet was coffee color, all stylish and tasteful. “White” can be in good or bad taste depending on the source of the color itself. The window was made of frosted glass, and although I couldn’t see what was outside, I could be pretty sure that the hazy light shining in was sunlight. If so, we were not in a basement, which meant the elevator had been going up, not down. This gave me some reassurance: I had been right after all. The young woman in pink gestured for me to sit on the leather sofa in the middle of the room, which I did, crossing my legs. Once I was settled, she went out through another door.

			The room had hardly any furniture. On the coffee table in front of the sofa were lined up a porcelain lighter, an ashtray, and a cigarette case. I took a look inside the cigarette case, which contained no cigarettes. The walls bore no pictures or calendars or photos of any kind—nothing superfluous.

			There was a big desk next to the window. I stood and walked over to the window. While I was at it, I had a look at the desk. The top was made of a thick wooden plank and had large drawers at either end. On top were a desk lamp, three BIC pens, and a desk calendar, and near them lay scattered a handful of paper clips. I peered at the calendar and found that it displayed the proper date: today’s date.

			In a corner of the room stood a bank of three steel lockers, the kind you see everywhere. They were out of kilter with the style of the room—too plain and institutional. If it had been up to me, I would have installed something more chic—nice wooden cabinets, say. But it wasn’t up to me. This wasn’t my room; I was just here to do a job. Whether they had dull gray steel lockers or a pale pink jukebox, I had nothing to say about it.

			There was a closet in the left-hand wall covered by tall, narrow folding doors. This was the last of the room’s furnishings. There was no clock or phone or pencil sharpener or water pitcher. No bookshelf or letter holder. I couldn’t begin to guess what the purpose or function of this room might be. I went back to the sofa, crossed my legs again, and yawned.

			After some ten minutes, the young woman came back. Without even glancing at me, she opened one of the lockers, took out something smooth and black, and carried it over to the desk in her arms. It was a tightly folded rubber rain slicker and boots. On top of the pile was a pair of goggles like the ones worn by World War I pilots. I had absolutely no idea what this was all about.

			She turned to me and said something, but her lips moved too quickly for me to read them.

			“Could you speak a little more slowly, please? I’m not that good at lipreading.”

			She slowly opened her mouth and began speaking. “Please put these on over your clothes,” she said. I would have preferred not to put on the rain slicker, but stating that in words would have been too much trouble, so I silently followed her instructions, removing my running shoes and putting on the tall rubber boots, and fitting the slicker over my sport shirt. The slicker was heavy and the boots one or two sizes too big for me, but I decided not to say anything about that, either. She stood in front of me, fastening the buttons of the slicker, which hung down to my ankles, and lifting the hood over my head. When she fit the hood over me, the tip of my nose brushed against her smooth forehead.

			“Wonderful scent,” I said in praise of her cologne.

			“Thank you,” she said, working her way up the line of snaps on the hood to just below my nose. Then she slipped the goggles on over the hood. Now I was a mummy for a rainy day.

			Next she opened one of the closet’s folding doors, led me over to it by the hand, and nudged me inside. Then she switched the light on and, reaching back, closed the door. It was a clothes closet, but without any clothes, just some hangers and mothballs. This was no ordinary closet, I imagined, but some kind of secret passage disguised as a closet. Otherwise, it made no sense for her to have shut me in here wrapped up in a rain slicker.

			For a while, she fumbled with a metal handle in the corner of the wall until, sure enough, part of the wall popped open inward—a section about the size of the trunk of a small car. The other side of the opening was pitch dark, but I caught the distinctly unpleasant feeling of a damp, chilly wind blowing in from over there and heard a steady roaring like the sound of a river.

			“There’s a river inside here,” she said. Her soundless mode of speaking took on a certain reality thanks to the river, as if she were producing a normal voice but it was being blotted out by the sound of the flow. Somehow, I felt, that made her easier to understand. Yes, I admit it was kind of strange.

			“Go way upstream until you come to a big waterfall. Then duck under it. My grandfather’s lab is behind the waterfall. You’ll see once you get there.”

			“Your grandfather is in there waiting for me?”

			“That’s right,” she said, handing me a large waterproof flashlight with a strap attached. I wasn’t too crazy about heading into that total darkness, but I couldn’t start raising objections now, so I made up my mind and poked one leg through the dark, gaping hole. Crouching forward, I eased my head and shoulders through and pulled my other leg inside, which was not easy to do in that stiff rain slicker, but now I had managed to transfer myself from the closet to the space on the other side of the wall. The fat girl was still standing in the closet, looking particularly cute as I turned to peer at her from the darkness through my goggles.

			“Take care,” she said, poking her head through the hole. “Don’t veer away from the river or take any side paths. Go straight ahead.”

			“Straight ahead to the waterfall,” I said loudly.

			“Straight ahead to the waterfall,” she repeated.

			I silently tested the “Sela” shape on my lips. She also said “Sela” with a sweet smile and banged the section of wall shut.



* * *



			—

			Now I was enveloped in total darkness—literally total darkness, without a needle point’s worth of light. I couldn’t see a thing, not even the hand I brought up to my face. I stood there in a daze as if something had struck me in the head. I felt a chilling sense of helplessness as if I were a fish that had been wrapped in plastic and tossed into the refrigerator. That’s what happens when you’re suddenly thrown into total darkness without any mental preparation for it: you go weak all over. If she was going to bang the wall shut like that, she should at least have given me a little warning.

			I felt for the flashlight switch and pushed it, sending a comforting shaft of familiar yellow light cutting through the darkness. The first thing I did was shine it on my feet and then slowly examined my immediate surroundings. I was standing on a narrow concrete platform maybe three meters square, beyond which was a sheer drop into something with no visible bottom. There was no guardrail, no enclosure. She should have warned me about that, too, I thought with some annoyance.

			Affixed to the side of the platform was an aluminum ladder going down. I strapped the flashlight diagonally across my chest and started down the slick-surfaced ladder, one cautious step at a time. The farther down I went, the louder and clearer the sound of flowing water became. I had never heard of a building with a room that had a closet inside of which there was a sheer cliff with a river flowing at the bottom—and in the very center of Tokyo, to boot. The more I thought about it, the more my head began to ache. First there had been that creepy elevator, then the fat girl with no voice, and now this. Maybe I should have just turned the job down and gone home. It was too dangerous and too crazy. But I gave up such thoughts and continued down the dark cliff. First, there was my professional pride to think about, and then there was the fat girl in the pink suit. Something about her weighed on my mind and made it impossible for me to forget the job and get out of there.

			Twenty rungs down, I stopped and took a breath. Eighteen more, and I stepped onto solid earth. Standing at the base of the ladder, I did a careful survey of my surroundings with the flashlight. My feet were on hard, flat bedrock, and just ahead of me was a river some two meters wide, its surface fluttering like a flag in the light of the flashlight. I couldn’t tell anything about its depth or color, but its current seemed fairly fast, and the flow went from left to right.

			I headed upstream along the bedrock, keeping the flashlight beam focused where my steps would fall. Every once in a while, though, I would flick the beam upward when I sensed that something had nearly touched me as it passed by in the darkness, but there was never anything to see besides the flowing water and the straight, sharp walls on either side of the river. Probably my nerves were on edge from the surrounding darkness.

			I had been walking for five or six minutes when I realized from a change in the sound of the water that the ceiling had dipped way down. I raised the flashlight but the darkness was too thick for me to tell where the ceiling was. Next, on either side, I was able to make out something like those side paths the girl had warned me not to take, though rather than side paths, they might better be called fissures in the rock walls. Water was gurgling from the base of each opening and dribbling into the river. I stepped over to one of the fissures and shone the flashlight inside but couldn’t see a thing. All I could tell was that the space inside seemed much roomier than the narrow opening suggested. I felt absolutely no desire to go inside, though.

			With a firm grip on the flashlight in my left hand, I headed upstream through the darkness feeling like a fish on the road to evolution. I had to take one careful step at a time to avoid slipping on the wet bedrock. If that were to happen in this total darkness and I either fell into the stream or broke the flashlight, I’d be done for.

			I was concentrating so hard on my footing that for a while I failed to notice a dim light flickering and wavering up ahead. By the time I raised my eyes, the light had approached within seven or eight meters. Reflexively, I switched my flashlight off, shoved my hand through the slit in my rain slicker, and pulled my knife out of my hip pocket. I felt for the button and flicked the blade open, totally enveloped in the darkness and the thunderous sound of water.

			The second I switched my flashlight off, the faint yellow light up ahead came to a halt. Then it traced a big circle in the air—twice, which I sensed was meant as a signal: “Don’t worry. It’s okay.” But still I kept on guard, waiting for them to make their move. Eventually, the light started wavering again as if a gigantic luminescent insect with a highly developed brain were floating toward me through space. I stared hard at the light, gripping the knife in my right hand and the switched-off flashlight in my left.

			When it came within some three meters of me, the light stopped moving, but then it started to float upward, and then it stopped moving again. It was weak enough so that I couldn’t tell at first what it was illuminating, but with some determined staring, I was just able to make out a person’s face. Like me, he was wearing goggles, and a black hood covered his head. The thing he was holding was a miniature lantern of the sort they sell in sporting goods stores. He was using it to illuminate his own face and was trying hard to talk to me, but the reverberation of the roaring water made it impossible for me to hear a thing, and his light was too weak in the darkness to enable me to read the unclear movements of his lips.

			He looked as if he could be saying “…and so…with…your sog…no good…and this…,” which made no sense to me. He didn’t appear to pose any kind of threat, so I turned my flashlight on, aimed it at the side of my head, and poked at my ear to let him know I couldn’t hear anything.

			He nodded a few times as if to convey that he understood that much. Then he set his lantern down, shoved both hands into the pockets of his rain slicker, and started fumbling around inside. Before long, the roaring noise that filled the space around me fell away all at once like the sudden ebbing of a tide. I thought I must be fainting, that my consciousness was dimming, which was making sound fade from my mind. I had no idea why I suddenly had to have a fainting spell at this point, but I braced myself for a fall by tightening every muscle in my body.

			I didn’t collapse, though, after several seconds like this, and felt totally normal. All that had happened was the sudden lowering of the sound around me.

			“Hello there, young man, I have come out to welcome you,” the man said. This time I heard him perfectly clearly.

			I shook my head, tucked my flashlight under my arm, folded my knife and put it back into my pocket. I had a premonition that this was going to be one hell of a day.

			“What happened to the sound?” I asked him.

			“Ah yes, the sound. You must have found it very annoying. I have turned it down. Please forgive me, it should be fine now,” he said, nodding again and again. The sound of the river had faded to something more like the gurgling of a little stream. “Shall we go?” He spun on his heels, turning his back to me, and started walking upstream with confident steps. I followed after him, shining the flashlight on the ground ahead of me.

			“You say you turned the sound down. Does that mean I’m hearing man-made sound effects?” I shouted toward where I thought the man’s back might be.

			“Not at all,” he said. “Those are natural sounds.”

			“How can natural sounds be turned down?” I asked.

			“Well, strictly speaking, I do not turn them down, I pull them out.”

			This left me a little confused, but I decided not to press the point. I was in no position to shower a stranger with questions. I was here to do a job, and whether my client chose to turn sound down or pull sound out or stir it like a vodka and lime, that had nothing to do with my business, so I just walked along without saying a word.

			In any case, now that the water noise had been done away with, the place was very quiet—so quiet, in fact, that I could clearly hear the squeaking of my rubber boots. Two or three times, I heard an odd sound overhead like someone stirring gravel, but that soon stopped.

			“We have had some evidence that the damned Murks have found their way in here. That worried me enough to come out this far to show you the way. Normally, they would never come so far inside, but whenever they do, they’re a big problem for us.”

			“The Murks?”

			“Believe me, young man, you would not want to run into one in a place like this,” he said with a gigantic “ho-ho-ho.”

			“No, I guess not,” I chimed in. I wouldn’t have wanted to encounter any unknown creatures in a pitch-dark place like this, Murks or otherwise.

			“That is why I came out to greet you,” he said again. “They are the worst.”

			“I appreciate your kindness, sir,” I said.

			A little farther ahead, I could hear what sounded like a faucet that had been left gushing. It was a waterfall. A quick sweep of the flashlight was all I could manage, so I couldn’t tell much about it, but it seemed big. It probably would have been producing a lot more noise if the sound hadn’t been pulled out. Standing in front of it, I found my goggles soaked with spray.

			“We’re supposed to duck through this, I suppose?”

			“Correct,” the man said, and with no further explanation, he forged straight into the waterfall and was swallowed up by it. All I could do was hurry in after him.

			Fortunately, our way through the waterfall was the point with the least volume of water falling. Still, it had the force to slam a person down. To think you had to be pounded by the waterfall anytime you went into or out of the lab was a ridiculous proposition even viewed in the most generous of terms, rain slicker or no. There had to be a more intelligent way to preserve the secrecy of the place. The waterfall knocked me over and made me crack my kneecap against a boulder. Because the man had pulled the sound out of the scene, the balance had been skewed between sounds and the reality that produced the sounds, which left me totally confused. A waterfall should have a waterfall’s worth of sound coming out of it.

			Inside the waterfall was a cave just big enough for a person to pass through it, and at the far end of the cave we came to a steel door. The man pulled something like a small calculator out of his rain slicker pocket, shoved it into a slit in the door, and pushed some buttons. The door opened soundlessly inward.

			“Well, here we are. After you, young man,” he said and followed me inside, locking the door. “No doubt this has been difficult for you,” he added.

			“I can’t say it hasn’t,” I answered with some restraint.

			With his hood and goggles still on and his lantern hanging from a cord around his neck, the man let out another of his strange “ho-ho-ho” kind of laughs.

			The room was large but bare, like the locker room of a public swimming pool, and its shelves were neatly lined with half a dozen black rain slickers like mine, rubber boots, and goggles. I pulled off my goggles and slicker, hung them on a hanger, and put my boots on a shelf. Finally, I hung my flashlight on a hook on the wall.

			“Forgive me for having put you to so much trouble,” the man said, “but we cannot compromise on security. They have us in their sights, and they are hanging around everywhere.”

			“The Murks, you mean?”

			“Among others,” he said with a nod.

			He then led me from the locker room to a reception room in back. With his rain slicker off, he turned out to be a rather small but dignified old man. He was by no means fat, but he had a solid, sturdy-looking build and ruddy complexion. He pulled a pair of rimless eyeglasses from his pocket, and when he put them on, he looked like a prewar political big shot.

			He urged me to sit on the sofa while he himself took his seat behind a business desk. I settled onto the sofa and crossed my legs. The room was exactly like the first room to which I had been shown. The color of the carpet, the light fixtures, and the sofa were the same. The same smoking equipment sat on the coffee table in front of the sofa, and this desk had the same kind of calendar and scattering of paper clips on it as the first one. I felt as if I might have gone in a circle and come back to the same room. This could well have been true—or not. I may be observant, but not to the point of remembering how every paper clip is scattered on a desk.

			The old man sat there peering at me. Then he picked up a paper clip, straightened it, and started poking at a cuticle—the cuticle of his left index finger. He kept this up for a while, and when he was through, he tossed the straightened paper clip into the ashtray on the desk. Even assuming it was possible to be reborn in a future life, one thing I didn’t want to come back as was a paper clip. I wasn’t crazy about the idea of pushing some weird old guy’s cuticle down and being thrown away in an ashtray.

			“My sources tell me the Murks and the Semiotecs are working hand-in-hand,” the old man said. “Not all of them, of course. The Murks are too wary for that, and the Semiotecs always leap before they look. Just some of them are working together. But it is not a good sign. The Murks should not be in here at all, so it is distressing to learn that they have started snooping around the area. I tell you, if they keep it up like this, the place might be crawling with them sooner or later, which will make it hard for me.”

			“I’m sure it will,” I said. I didn’t know anything about the Murks, but if the Semiotecs had joined forces with another organization, that would be a huge problem for me. As it was, the struggle between our people and the Semiotecs was teetering on the razor’s edge, so it wouldn’t take much to throw the whole thing out of kilter. Things were already off-balance if I didn’t know about the Murks and the Semiotecs did. Of course, my ignorance might be a simple function of my being a low-ranking front-line independent contractor while the guys at the top had probably learned the truth ages ago.

			“All that aside,” the old man said, “if it is all right with you, young man, I would like to have you start immediately.”

			“That’s fine with me, sir,” I said.

			“I asked the agent to send me the most capable Calcutec he could find, and you seem to have a decent reputation. Everyone says good things about you: your skill level is high, and you are a courageous and dependable worker. Aside from a certain lack of team spirit, there is not a black mark against you.”

			“I’m flattered,” I said, modest fellow that I am.

			The old man burst out with another “ho-ho-ho” and said, “But team spirit is overrated as far as I am concerned. Courage is a lot more important. One cannot be a top Calcutec without courage. That is why you are so well paid, after all.”

			I had nothing to say to that. The old man laughed again and showed me into the adjoining office.

			“I am a biologist,” he said. “In the broadest possible sense of the word. I do everything from brain physiology to acoustics to linguistics to religious studies. I do not mean to boast, but my research is extremely valuable and creative. These days, I am concentrating on mammalian palates.”

			“Palates?”

			“The structure of the mouth. How mouths move, how they vocalize, that is what I am studying. Have a look.”

			As he said this, he flicked on the office lights. The entire back wall was covered with shelves, on which were tightly lined up the skulls of every conceivable mammal—giraffe, horse, panda, rat—probably three or four hundred in all. There were human skulls, too, of course: Caucasian, African, Asian, Indio, both male and female of each.

			“I keep my whale and elephant skulls in the basement storeroom,” the old man said. “As you can imagine, they take up a lot of space.”

			“Yes, of course,” I answered. True, a display of whale skulls alone would have filled the room.

			Every single one of the animals on display had its mouth gaping wide open and its empty eye sockets staring fixedly at the wall opposite. Research specimens though they were, I felt uneasy surrounded by all these bones. Other shelves were lined with fewer specimens but still a wide variety of tongues, ears, lips, and epiglottises in jars of formaldehyde.

			“What do you think, young man? Quite a collection, is it not?” the old man asked with obvious pleasure. “Some people collect stamps, others collect records. Some fill their wine cellars while certain millionaires enjoy parking tanks in their backyards. Me? I collect skulls. It takes all kinds of people to make a world. Interesting, no?”

			“Yes, I guess so,” I said.

			“I developed an intense interest in mammal skulls at an early age and put a lot of energy into making this collection. Probably going on forty years now. It takes a lot longer to understand the properties of bone than you could ever imagine—years! In that sense, flesh-and-blood human beings are far easier to understand. I really believe that. And speaking of flesh, I suppose that is the part of people you young folks are primarily interested in.” Another “ho-ho-ho” followed this remark. “In my case, it took a full thirty years before I could hear the sounds that bones make. Thirty years! Think of it!”

			“Sounds? Bones make sounds?”

			“Of course they do,” he said. “Each bone has its own unique sound—a hidden signal, as it were. Bones speak to us—quite literally, not metaphorically. The purpose of my current research is to analyze those signals. And if I am able to analyze them, I should be able to control them artificially.”

			I groaned in wonderment. I couldn’t understand everything he was saying, but if he was right, his research must be very valuable, which is what I said to him: “Your research must be very valuable.”

			“It certainly is, young man,” he said with a nod. “Which is why they have their eye on it—and they do not miss a thing. They want to exploit my research for their own nefarious ends. For example, if they could collect memories directly from the bone, there would be no need for torture. All they would have to do would be to kill a person, scrape off his flesh, and wash his bones.”

			“That’s awful!” I said.

			“For better or worse, my research has not gone that far yet. At this stage, you can still collect much clearer memories by plucking out the brain.”

			“Oh, man,” I said. Having your brain or your bones plucked out—it’s all the same.

			“Which is precisely why I am depending on you to do the calculating—so the Semiotecs cannot wiretap my data,” the old man said with a somber expression. “Exploiting science—whether for good or evil—is a cause of the current crisis of contemporary civilization. I believe absolutely that science should exist for its own sake, period.”

			“I don’t know much about beliefs,” I said, “but there is one thing I’d like to make clear—an administrative matter. The request for this job didn’t come from System Headquarters or the official agent but straight from you, which is highly unusual. It might even be against regulations. If it is an infraction, I could be punished and have my license revoked. Are you aware of that?”

			“Yes indeed,” the old man said. “I do not blame you for being worried, but the request was entirely official, submitted through the System. For secrecy’s sake, however, I contacted you directly rather than going through the usual administrative level. Nothing will cause you to be punished.”

			“Can you guarantee me that?”

			He opened a desk drawer, took out a document folder, and handed it to me. I flipped it open and, sure enough, found a System request form properly formatted and signed.

			“Looks okay,” I said, handing the folder back to him. “I assume you’re all right with the pay set for my rank?”

			“Twice the standard fee. Not a problem. On this job, I shall add a bonus and make it three times the standard.”

			“Very generous of you.”

			“The calculation is an important one, and you were good enough to duck under the waterfall for us,” he said with another “ho-ho-ho.”

			“Could you let me have a look at your figures?” I asked. “I’ll settle on the best approach after I’ve seen them. Who’ll be doing the computer part of the job?”

			“I myself will use my computer for that phase and ask you to handle what comes before and after if you are all right with that.”

			“Fine with me. Saves me a lot of trouble.”

			The old man left his chair and started fiddling with the wall behind him until an ordinary-looking section of it popped open. Another clever gizmo. The old man pulled a second document folder out of the opening and snapped the panel shut, whereupon the wall became a plain white wall again. I took the folder and read over the seven pages of tiny figures it contained. There was no problem with the figures themselves: they were just figures.

			“A simple wash should do for this,” I said. “If the figures have no more repetitive frequency than what I see here, we don’t have to worry about them constructing a temporary bridge. They could do it, of course, theoretically, but they couldn’t prove the validity of the bridge, and if they couldn’t prove that, their errors would be a dead giveaway. It’d be like crossing the desert without a compass. Moses did it, I suppose.”

			“He crossed a sea, too, you may recall.”

			“True, but that’s ancient history. No job that I’ve been involved with has ever suffered a Semiotec intrusion at this level. Not one.”

			“By which you mean to say that all we need is a single trap?”

			“A double trap would be too risky. True, that would reduce the possibility of a temporary bridge intervention to zero, but it would just be a stunt at this stage. The trap process hasn’t been established—it’s still under study.”

			“I am not talking about a double trap,” the old man said and started pushing down a cuticle with a paper clip again—the middle finger of his left hand this time.

			“By which you mean…?”

			“Shuffling. What I am talking about is shuffling. I need to ask you to do a brain wash and shuffling. That is what I called you for. If all I wanted was a brain wash, I did not have to make a point of asking for you.”

			“I don’t get it,” I said, recrossing my legs. “How do you know about shuffling? It’s top-secret stuff. Outsiders are not supposed to know about it.”

			“Well, I know about it. I have a major pipeline connecting me with the top System people.”

			“Please do me a favor, then, and ask them about it through your pipeline. The shuffling system is in the deep freeze for now. I don’t know why. They must have had some kind of trouble with it. I just know I’m not supposed to use it. If they found out I had used it, I’d get much worse than a slap on the wrist.”

			The old man handed me the folder with the order form in it again.

			“Please look at the last page. It should have a permit for using the shuffling system.”

			I did as he said and looked over the last page. He was right: it had a shuffling system use permit attached. I read it several times. No doubt about it: it was official, with five signatures. I couldn’t tell for the life of me what the System brass could be thinking. You dig a pit, and they tell you to fill it in; you fill in a pit, and they tell you to dig it out again. Guys like me on the front line were always the ones who paid the price.

			“Can I ask you to make a color copy of the whole order form?” I asked. “I’ll be in serious trouble if I don’t have it when push comes to shove.”

			“Of course, I shall do it gladly,” the old man replied. “You have nothing to worry about. I have followed all the procedures to the letter. I pay half the fee today and the rest on delivery. Will that be acceptable?”

			“Fine,” I said. “I’ll do the brain wash now here, take the finished figures home, and do the shuffling there. I’ll have to prepare a lot for the shuffling. Then I’ll bring the shuffled data back here.”

			“You do know that I absolutely must have the figures by noon three days from now?”

			“That’s plenty of time,” I said.

			“I am counting on you not to be late,” the old man drove the point home again. “That would be a disaster.”

			“Meaning, the world would fall apart?”

			“In a sense, yes,” he said portentously.

			“Don’t worry, I’ve never missed a deadline,” I said. “If possible, please have a thermos full of hot black coffee and some ice water ready. And a simple evening snack. I get the feeling this is going to be a long job.”



* * *



			—

			 				Sure enough, it turned out to be a long job. The array of figures itself was relatively straightforward, but there were so many case-configured stages to work through, the calculations took a lot more effort than I had thought at first glance. I always put the figures I’m given into my right brain, and after converting them to completely different symbols, I move them into my left brain. Then what I’ve moved into my left brain I take out as numbers that are completely different from the first figures and type them onto a clean sheet of paper. This is a brain wash in the simplest terms. The conversion code is different for each Calcutec. What makes the codes entirely different from a random number chart is their diagrammatic quality. In other words, each code’s key is hidden in the way the right and left brains are split off from each other. Of course, the right and left sides of the brain are not actually separated: this is just a convenient way to put it. A drawing would look like this:





			To put it simply, as long as you are unable to fit the two jagged edges together in perfect alignment, you will not be able to reconstruct the original figures from what comes out at the end of the brain wash. The Semiotecs, however, try to decipher the originals by constructing temporary bridges on the figures they have stolen from our computers. They analyze those figures and reproduce the jagged edges in a holograph. Sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn’t. If we raise the level of our technology, they raise the level of their technical countermeasures. We protect data and they steal data. It’s the classic cops-and-robbers pattern.

			The Semiotecs mainly sell their illegally obtained data on the intelligence black market for enormous profits. Even worse, they keep the most important items of their stolen data and exploit them to the advantage of their own organization.

			Our organization is generally known as “the System,” while that of the Semiotecs is called “the Factory.” The System was originally a privately owned conglomerate, but as it grew in importance, it came to take on a semigovernmental coloration, perhaps like the American Bell Company in organizational structure. I and the other rank-and-file Calcutecs work independently like tax accountants or lawyers, but we need government-issued licenses and are only allowed to accept assignments directly from the System or through System-approved official agents in order to prevent misuse of our technology by the Factory. Any infractions are met with punishment and forfeiture of license, though I’m not sure such measures make sense because nine times out of ten, a disqualified Calcutec will just be taken in by the Factory, go underground, and become a Semiotec.

			How the Factory is structured, I have no idea. They say it started out as a small-scale venture-capital firm and blossomed overnight. Some people call it the Data Mafia, and it may in fact resemble the Mafia in that it has roots creeping into all kinds of underground organizations, but one point of difference from the Mafia is that it deals exclusively with data. Data is clean, and it turns into money. Once they set their sights on a computer, they monitor it closely and steal its data.



* * *



			—

			I drank a whole pot of coffee while performing the brain wash. One hour on and half an hour off was the rule. You have to do that or you blur the interface between the left and right brains and mess up the figures.

			I chatted with the old man about one thing or another during the half-hour breaks. The best remedy for brain fatigue is to keep the mouth engaged in random chatter.

			“What are these figures about?” I asked him at one point.

			“They are measurements from my experiments,” the old man said. “The results from my past year of research. I convert three-dimensional images of various animal skulls and mouth-cavity volumes into figures and combine those with a three-factor breakdown of their vocalizations. I told you before that it took me thirty years to progress to where I could hear the unique sounds of bones, but when these calculations are complete, we will be able to extract those sounds not just experientially but theoretically.”

			“And control them artificially, you mean?”

			“Exactly,” the old man said.

			“And if you control them artificially, what happens then?”

			He fell silent for a few moments, running the tip of his tongue over his upper lip. Then he said, “Many different things happen. Truly, many different kinds of things. I cannot be the one to tell you what they are, but things happen that you could never imagine.”

			“Such as pulling sound out?” I asked.

			The old man gave another happy “ho-ho-ho” and said, “Yes, that is it, exactly. It becomes possible to pull sound out or increase it in keeping with the unique signal of each human skull. No two skulls have exactly the same shape, of course, so one cannot pull the sound out completely, but one can make it very small. To put it simply, one combines a sound with its exact opposite and makes them resonate simultaneously so they cancel each other out. Sound pulling is one of the more harmless results of my research.”

			If that was supposedly so harmless, it wasn’t hard to guess what his other results might be like. I got a little sick to my stomach to imagine people everywhere turning sounds up and down at will.

			“Sound pulling can be done from either direction: production or perception,” the old man said. “In other words, the way I did before, I can delete just the sound of water from what you hear or I can delete it from the source. When working from the source, since that is an individual matter, I can delete one hundred percent of the sound.”

			“Are you planning to make your research available to the public?”

			“Absolutely not,” the old man said with a wave of the hand. “This is too much fun to let other people in on it. I do it strictly for my own pleasure.”

			He laughed again, and I laughed with him.

			“My publications are intended for a strictly professional academic readership. I mean, hardly anyone is interested in phonetics after all. Most of the scholar-idiots out there cannot understand my theories. And no one in the academic world takes my work seriously, anyway.”

			“But the Semiotecs are certainly not idiots. Their analytical abilities verge on genius. All of your research should be clear to them, don’t you think?”

			“I am very cautious about that, which is why I keep all data and process secret, publishing only my theories in hypothetical form. That way, there is no fear of them gaining possession of my results. The academic world may not pay any attention to me, but I am indifferent to that. My theories will be proved a hundred years from now, which is good enough for me.”

			“Wow,” I said.

			“Which is why everything depends on your brain wash and shuffling.”

			“I get it,” I said.

			For the next hour, I concentrated all my attention on calculating. Then it was time for a break again.

			“I have one question for you,” I said.

			“And what would that be?” the old man asked.

			“The young lady at the entrance, the well-endowed one in the pink suit…”

			“She’s my granddaughter,” the old man said. “A very capable girl. As young as she is, she helps me in my research.”

			“So, my question is, is she mute by birth, or did sound pulling make her like that?”

			“Oh, no!” the old man said, slapping himself on the knee. “I totally forgot. I did a sound-pulling experiment on her and forgot to undo it. Oh no, damn! I have to go there right away and undo her.”

			“Yes,” I said, “you probably should.”





4


			End of the World


			Library


			A semicircular plaza stretching north of the Old Bridge formed the center of the town. The other half of the circle lay south of the bridge on the other side of the river. The two half circles were called the North Plaza and the South Plaza and were treated as a pair, but the impression that each half gave the observer was so different as to be the exact opposite of the other. A strange weight could be felt in the air of the North Plaza as though the town’s pervasive silence poured into the plaza from all four directions. By contrast, there was almost nothing to be felt in the South Plaza. All that hung there was a vague sense of absence. Fewer houses stood there than on the north side of the bridge, and the flower beds and cobblestones of the South Plaza were poorly maintained.

			A large clock tower thrust up into the sky from the center of the North Plaza, though perhaps it might more accurately be called an objet retaining the form of a clock tower, having long since surrendered the function of a clock, its hands frozen in place.

			It was a square tower made of stone, each face indicating a point of the compass—north, south, east, and west—and narrowing as it rose in height, with a clockface on each surface near the peak, all eight hands frozen at 10:35. Judging from the little window beneath each clockface, the tower was hollow inside, and there seemed to be a ladder or something for climbing up but no sign of an entrance for gaining access to it. The tower rose to such precipitous heights, you had to cross the Old Bridge to the south side of the river if you wanted to read the clockface.

			The half circle of the North Plaza was surrounded by stone and brick buildings that fanned out several rows deep. None of the buildings had any distinguishing characteristics, no decoration or writing, and all their doors were shut tight without any people in evidence going in or out. They might have been something like a post office that had lost its mail, a mining company that had lost its miners, a mortuary that had lost its corpses. As utterly still and silent as they were, however, the buildings gave strangely little impression that they had been abandoned. Whenever I would pass among them, I would get the feeling that in all the buildings that lined the streets of the town, people I would never know were holding their breath and engaging in activities I would never know about.

			The library, too, stood on a street in a similarly hushed quarter of the town, undistinguished in any way from all the other stone buildings, with no sign or architectural feature to identify it as a library. It could have passed as a grain warehouse with its drab, weathered stone walls, its narrow eaves, its iron-barred windows, and its massive wooden door. If Gatekeeper hadn’t drawn the route there for me on a piece of paper, I would almost certainly never have recognized the building as a library.



* * *



			—

			“We want you to go straight to the library as soon as you settle in,” Gatekeeper had said to me the day I arrived. “You’ll find a girl on duty there. Tell her you’ve come with orders from the town to read the old dreams. She’ll tell you everything you have to do from that point on.”

			“Old dreams?” I blurted out. “What could ‘old dreams’ possibly be?”

			Just then Gatekeeper was using a small knife to whittle some kind of round wedge or peg from a block of wood. He stopped to gather together the shavings scattered over the tabletop and throw them into a litter pail.

			“Old dreams are just that: old dreams. The library has more than you could ever want. Go grab a bunch and give them a good, long look.”

			Gatekeeper then did a close inspection of the round, pointed block he had carved, and when he was satisfied, he placed it on the shelf behind him where some twenty or so sharpened blocks of that shape were lined up.

			“You can ask any questions you like,” he said, “but I’ll decide which ones I want to answer.” He folded his hands behind his head. “Some I won’t be able to answer. Anyhow, you’ll go to the library every day and read the old dreams. That’ll be your job. You’ll go at six o’clock in the evening and read dreams until ten or eleven. The girl will make you dinner. The rest of the time you’re free to spend any way you like. No restrictions. Is that clear?”

			I said it was clear. “But how long will I be doing this job?”

			“Hmm, I wonder. I really don’t know,” Gatekeeper said. “Until the time comes, I suppose.” He pulled another block out of a pile of kindling and started whittling it with the knife.

			“This is a small town,” he said, “and poor. We don’t have the wherewithal to support loafers. Everybody has a place to work and a job to do. Yours is to read old dreams in the library. I’m sure you didn’t come here thinking to have fun and take it easy?”

			“Work is not a hardship for me,” I said. “I find it easier to be working than doing nothing at all.”

			“Excellent,” he said, staring hard at the tip of his knife blade. “So let’s get you working right away. From now on, you’ll be known as Dreamreader. That will be your only name. Just as mine is Gatekeeper. Is that clear?”

			“Yes, it is,” I said.

			“There is only one Gatekeeper in this town, and there will be only one Dreamreader. Because only you will have the necessary qualification to be Dreamreader. I’ll give you that qualification now.”

			Gatekeeper took a small dish out of his sideboard, set it on the table, and dribbled oil into it. Then he struck a match and lit the oil. Next he took an odd knife down from the shelf where the sharp instruments were lined up—it was flat, like a butter knife—and held the tip in the flames until it was well heated. Finally, he blew out the flame and cooled the blade.

			“I’m just going to mark you,” he said, “so it won’t hurt a bit and you don’t have to be afraid. It’ll be over before you know it.”

			His fingers lifted my right eyelid and he thrust the knife tip into my eye. As he had said, it didn’t hurt and was, strangely, not frightening. The blade pierced my eyeball softly and soundlessly as if penetrating a mass of jelly. Next he did the same thing to my left eyeball.

			“When your Dreamreader days end, the wounds will disappear by themselves,” Gatekeeper said as he was putting away the dish and knife. “They’re the mark of the Dreamreader. As long as you bear the mark, you have to be careful of strong light. Make sure you never look at the light of the sun with those eyes. If you do so, you will be suitably punished. You can walk outdoors only at night or on cloudy days. When it’s sunny out, you have to keep your room as dark as possible and stay shut up inside.”

			He handed me a pair of glasses with black lenses and told me to wear them anytime I wasn’t sleeping. This was how I lost the light of the sun.



* * *



			—

			I first entered the library several days later in the evening. The heavy wooden door creaked as it swung open to reveal a long, straight corridor. The air inside was stagnant and dust-laden as if it had been trapped in there for years. The floorboards were worn down where people had walked, and the plaster walls had yellowed to match the color of the electric lights.

			Both sides of the corridor had several doors, but chains hung on all the doorknobs, and thick white dust lay atop the chained knobs. Only the lightly built door at the far end of the corridor had no chain, and through the panel of frosted glass in the door shone the glow of electric lights. I tried knocking on that door a few times, but no one answered. I gave the worn brass knob a quiet twist, and the door silently opened inward. There was no sign of anyone inside. The room was one size larger than a train station’s waiting room but plain and bare, without windows or decoration of any kind. The only furnishings were a crudely made table, three chairs, and an old-fashioned iron coal stove. There were also a large wall clock and a counter. A chipped black enamel kettle sat atop the stove, releasing white steam clouds. Behind the counter was a door like the one through which I had entered, with the same kind of frosted glass panel behind which electric lights were visible. I hesitated, wondering if I should knock on that door, deciding in the end to wait for someone to come.

			Silver-colored paper clips were scattered across the countertop. I picked one up and toyed with it a while before sitting in one of the chairs beside the table.



* * *



			—

			The girl came through the door behind the counter ten or fifteen minutes later. She was holding some sort of folder. She seemed a little surprised to see me, and her cheeks reddened for a moment.

			“I’m sorry,” she said, “I didn’t know anyone was here. You should have knocked. I’ve been in the back room all this while, straightening up. Everything’s such a mess.”

			I stared at her a long time, saying nothing. I couldn’t escape the feeling that her face was trying to remind me of something, that something about her was gently disturbing a kind of soft sediment that had settled to the very bottom of my consciousness, but what it meant I had no idea, and the words for it had been buried in some far-off darkness.

			“As you know, no one comes here anymore,” she said. “There’s nothing here but old dreams.”

			I gave her a little nod without moving my eyes from her face. I tried to read something from her eyes, or her lips, or her broad forehead, or the way her black hair was fastened in back, but the more I looked at each detail, the more the overall impression she gave me seemed to blur and sink into the distance. I gave up and closed my eyes.

			“Please forgive my saying so,” she said, “but perhaps you have come to the wrong place. All the buildings around here look alike.” She set her folder on the counter next to the paper clips. “The Dreamreader is the only one who can come in here and read the old dreams. No one else is allowed inside.”

			“I’m here to read the dreams,” I said. “On orders from the town.”

			“May I ask you to remove your glasses, then? Sorry.”

			I took my black glasses off and faced her directly. She fixed her eyes on my pupils, which had paled with the mark of the Dreamreader. I felt as if her gaze were penetrating to my very core.

			“Fine,” she said. “Please put your glasses back on. Would you like a cup of coffee?”

			“Yes, thanks,” I said.

			She brought two cups from a back room, filled them with coffee from a pot, and sat at the table across from me.

			“Let’s start the dreamreading tomorrow,” she said. “I haven’t done the preparations for today. Can we do it here? Or I could open the reading room if you like. It’s locked.”

			I said we could do it there. “You’ll be helping me, then?”

			“Yes, of course. My job is to mind the old dreams and to assist the Dreamreader.”

			“Haven’t we met somewhere before?” I asked.

			She raised her eyes and looked straight at me. She seemed to be searching through her memories for something she could tie in with me but gave up finally and shook her head. “As you know, in this town memory is unstable and uncertain. Some things can be recalled, and some things not. I guess you belong to the second group. I’m sorry.”

			“Never mind,” I said. “It’s not important.”

			“Of course, I might very well have met you somewhere before. I’ve always lived here. And it’s a small town.”

			“I just arrived a few days ago.”

			“A few days ago?” she asked with apparent surprise. “Then you must be thinking of someone else. I was born here and have never left. Maybe it was someone who looks like me.”

			“Probably,” I said and took a sip of coffee. “But every now and then, I get to thinking that all of us used to live completely different lives in completely different places long ago, and something happens to make us forget those things, so here we are, living our lives here and now in total ignorance of what our lives used to be. Haven’t you ever thought that?”

			“No, never,” she said. “I wonder if you think that because you’re a Dreamreader? Dreamreaders think and feel things very differently from ordinary people.”

			“I wonder,” I said.

			“So, do you know where you were and what you were doing?”

			“I can’t remember,” I said, and walked over to the counter, where I picked up one of the scattered paper clips and looked at it for a while. “I do feel that something happened. I’m sure of it. And I feel as if I met you there.”

			The library ceiling was very high, and the room was as quiet as the ocean bottom. I stood there with the paper clip in my hand, thinking nothing much and letting my eyes drift aimlessly around the room. She went on drinking her coffee alone at the table.

			“I don’t know why I’m here, either,” I said.

			As I stared at the ceiling, yellow grains of light appeared to be showering down from the electric fixtures there, swelling and shrinking all the while. This was probably caused by the cuts in my eyeballs. Gatekeeper had modified my eyes to look at something special. The big old clock on the wall was slowly and silently counting off the time.

			“I probably had some reason for coming here, but now I can’t recall what it was,” I said.

			“This is a very quiet town,” she said. “So if you came in search of quiet, I think you’ll like it here.”

			“You’re probably right,” I replied. “What should I do here today?”

			She shook her head and stood up slowly, moving away from the table with the two empty coffee cups in her hands.

			“There’s nothing you can do here today. Let’s start working tomorrow. You should go home and rest until then.”

			I looked up at the ceiling again and then at her. I felt a strong link of some kind between her face and something in my heart. And that something faintly struck my heart. I closed my eyes and searched through the dim, hazy contents of my heart. When I closed my eyes, I could feel the silence spreading over me like fine dust.

			“I’ll be here at six tomorrow,” I said.

			“Goodbye until then,” she said.



* * *



			—

			I left the library and walked to the Old Bridge, where I leaned on the railing and listened to the flow of the river while gazing at the townscape, from which all sign of the beasts had vanished. Everything was bathed in the pale blue darkness of the coming night: the clock tower, the wall surrounding the town, the buildings lining the riverbanks, the sawtooth ridge of the Northern Mountains. The sound of the water was all that reached my ears. The birds had flown off somewhere, too.

			“If you came in search of quiet,” she had said, but I could not be sure if she had been right about that.

			When darkness had enveloped everything and the lamps came on along the road that followed the river, I headed down the deserted street toward West Hill.





5


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Calculation, Evolution, Sex Drive


			I kept working silently on my calculations while the old man was back aboveground returning sound to the granddaughter he had accidentally left switched off.

			I could not tell for sure how long the old man was away. I had set my digital watch to ring on repeating cycles—an hour, thirty minutes, an hour, thirty minutes—in accord with which I would calculate and rest, calculate and rest. I turned off the watch’s display so I could not see the time. Concern about the time would just interfere with calculating. My work had nothing to do with the time of day: it began when I started calculating and ended when I finished calculating. All that mattered was the cycle of one hour, thirty minutes, one hour, thirty minutes.

			I think I had two or three rest periods while the old man was away. I’d stretch out on the sofa and let my mind wander, go to the toilet, do pushups. The sofa was a comfortable one to lie on, neither too hard nor too soft, and its cushion made a perfect pillow. This was practically unheard of in the many places I went for calculating jobs. Most companies’ sofas were poorly made pieces of furniture that somebody just happened to pick up in the first store they came to. Even those that looked like quality pieces at first glance were mostly disappointing once you actually lay on them. I wonder why people do such a half-baked job of choosing sofas.

			I’ve always had a firm belief—though it may be a matter of prejudice—that a person’s choice in sofas tells a lot about his character. A sofa is nothing less than a self-contained, inviolable world, though this is obvious only to those who have grown up sitting on good sofas. It’s the same as growing up surrounded by good books and good music. One good sofa gives rise to another just as one bad sofa gives rise to another—that kind of thing.

			I know several people who have second- or third-rate sofas in their houses even though they drive around in luxury cars. I don’t trust people like that. True, expensive cars probably have their own sort of value—the value of being expensive cars. Anybody with enough money can buy one. But to buy a good sofa, you need a certain degree of discrimination and experience and philosophy. It’s not enough just to spend the money. You will never be able to become the owner of a superior sofa unless you have an unshakable concept of what a sofa should be.

			The sofa I stretched out on that day was, without doubt, the finest quality available, which gave me a favorable view of the old man. Lying on the sofa with my eyes closed, I sent my thoughts revolving around this old man with his oddly stilted way of speaking and his odd way of laughing. Considering his work on sound pulling, he had to be one of the highest-level scientists in the world. No ordinary scholar was able to pull sound out and put sound in at will. No ordinary scholar would even think that such a thing was possible. It was also just as certain that he was a notably eccentric human being. Eccentric or misanthropic scientists were by no means unusual, but not many of them would go so far as to build a secret laboratory deep underground behind a waterfall to avoid detection.

			I imagined how the money would pour in if one could commercialize the technology for pulling and inserting sound. PA systems would disappear from concert halls, for one thing, because there would no longer be any need for gigantic sound-amplification equipment. Conversely, it would be possible to eliminate noise. People who lived near airports would be greatly helped if sound-pulling devices could be installed on airplanes. At the same time, many forms of sound-pulling and sound-inserting technology would undoubtedly be put to use in military applications and in crime. It was all too obvious that deadly inventions would come out one after another: soundless bombers, silent guns, bombs that destroyed people’s brains by making huge sounds, increasingly sophisticated and systematic methods of mass murder. No doubt the old man himself had chosen to keep the results of his research within reach and away from the public because he recognized their destructive potential. This made me all the more favorably disposed toward him.

			The old man came back when I was in the fifth or sixth work cycle. He was carrying an enormous basket.

			“Fresh coffee and sandwiches,” he said. “Cucumber, ham, and cheese. I hope you like them.”

			“They’re favorites of mine, thanks.”

			“Do you want to eat right away?”

			“I’ll have lunch when this calculating cycle is done.”

			By the time my alarm watch sounded, I had finished washing five of the seven pages of figures. One last push to go. I stood up for a break, took a big stretch, and got started with lunch.

			Served in an ordinary restaurant or snack bar, the mountain of sandwiches here would have been five or six plates’ worth. I silently downed two thirds of them myself. For some reason, a long brain wash leaves you ravenously hungry. I devoured ham, cucumber, and cheese sandwiches by turns and washed them down with hot coffee.

			The old man helped himself to one sandwich in the time I ate three. He seemed fond of cucumber. He would strip back the upper piece of bread, carefully sprinkle a decent amount of salt on the cucumber slices, and chew the sandwich with little crunching sounds. The way he held a sandwich lightly in his fingertips, he looked like a well-mannered cricket when he ate.

			“Please go ahead, have all you want,” the old man said. “When you get as old as I am, your food intake goes down. You eat just a little and move just a little. Young people, though, should eat their fill. Eat their fill and fatten up. Everybody seems to hate the idea of getting fat, but if you ask me, people are getting fat in the wrong way. That is why they lose their good health and good looks, which absolutely never happens if you fatten up the right way. Do it correctly and your life is complete, your sex drive goes up, and your brain becomes clear. I was nice and fat, too, in my youth. You cannot see any of that now, of course.”

			The old man pursed his lips and released another outburst of “ho-ho-ho.”

			“How do you like the sandwiches?” he asked. “Very good, are they not?”

			I had to agree: they were truly delicious. I think I’m as tough a grader of sandwiches as I am of sofas, and these easily cleared the standards I had established.

			“My granddaughter made them, by way of thanks to you, she says. It is one of her specialties.”

			“She really knows how to make a sandwich. A pro would have a hard time matching these.”

			“Ah, wonderful. She would be happy to hear you say that. We almost never have visitors, so she rarely gets to hear people praise her cooking. She and I are the only ones who eat what she makes.”

			“You mean just the two of you live together?” I asked.

			“Yes, that has been our situation, just the two of us, for years now. I never see anyone, and she has picked up that habit, unfortunately. She never goes into the outside world. She is smart and healthy, but she never tries to make contact with anyone. Young people should not be like that. They should be using up their sexual energy in wholesome ways. She is an attractive young woman, would you agree?”

			“Well, sure, uh…”

			“The sex drive is an appropriate kind of energy, that is obvious. If you keep it bottled up, you lose mental clarity and physical balance. It is the same for both women and men. In the case of women, their periods become irregular, and when that happens, they lose mental stability.”

			“Hmm” was the best I could do.

			“That girl should have relations with the right sort of man at the earliest opportunity. I firmly believe that, both as her guardian and as a biologist,” the old man said while salting his cucumbers.

			“Did you, uh, manage to restore her sound?” I asked, not wanting to hear about other people’s sex drives while in the middle of a job.

			“Oh yes, oh yes, I forgot to tell you,” the old man said. “Of course, she has her sound back where it belongs. Thanks again for reminding me. If you had not told me, she would have had to live without sound for days. When I shut myself up in here, I do not go back aboveground for quite a while. And believe me, living without sound is hard.”

			“Yes, it must be,” I chimed in.

			“As I told you before, my granddaughter has virtually nothing to do with society at large, so I am unable to point to any one difficulty caused by her being switched off, but it can be a problem when the phone rings, for example. I called a few times from down here and thought it strange when no one answered. It never occurred to me it was my own fault.”

			“Even shopping must be a problem if you can’t speak,” I said.

			“No, shopping is not a problem,” the old man said, “thanks to the existence of supermarkets. You can shop at one of those without being able to speak. They are quite convenient that way. She loves supermarkets and shops in them all the time. She practically spends her life going back and forth between the office and the supermarket.”

			“Doesn’t she go home?”

			“She is very fond of the office. It has a kitchen and a shower and anything else she needs for daily life. She goes home perhaps once a week.”

			I gave him a half-hearted nod and took another sip of coffee.

			“Come to think of it,” the old man said, “you managed to communicate with her well enough. How did you do that? Telepathy or something?”

			“Lipreading,” I said. “I once took an adult-education course in lipreading. I had lots of time on my hands back then and nothing better to do. I thought it might come in handy sometime.”

			“Oh, I see, lipreading!” he said, nodding excitedly. “You are correct, lipreading is a very useful skill. I do fairly well at it myself. What do you say we give it a try?”

			“No, let’s not,” I hastened to say. “Let’s just talk normally.” I couldn’t stand the thought of having to deal with lipreading more than once a day.

			“Of course, lipreading is a primitive skill with many drawbacks. It cannot be done in the dark, and one must keep staring at the other person’s mouth. But it is useful as a transitional measure. You were very foresighted to learn it.”

			“Transitional measure?”

			“Yes,” the old man said with another nod. “Just between you and me, the world is bound to become soundless in the future.”

			“Soundless?” I blurted out in response.

			“That is correct. Totally soundless. Sound is not only useless in terms of human evolution, but it does positive harm. Which is why, sooner or later, it will cease to exist.”

			“Huh?” I responded. “You mean to say that things like bird cries or river sounds or music are going to cease to exist, too?”

			“Yes, of course.”

			“I don’t know, that seems like a great loss to me.”

			“Well, that is how evolution works. It is always painful and leads to some loss. There is no such thing as happy evolution.” The old man stood and walked over to the desk, took a small nail clipper from a drawer, and returned to the sofa, where he started trimming all ten nails, from the thumb of his right hand to the little finger of his left hand. “My research is still unfinished, which is why I cannot tell you all the details, but that is the general shape of it. Please do not breathe a word of this to anyone, though. If the Semiotecs ever hear about it, something terrible will happen.”

			“Don’t worry,” I said. “Nobody can top us Calcutecs at keeping secrets.”

			“I am relieved to hear that,” the old man said. Then he used the edge of a postcard to gather together the nail clippings scattered on the desktop and threw them into a wastebasket, after which he picked up a cucumber sandwich, sprinkled salt inside, and tore into it with obvious delight.

			“I should not be boasting about my own granddaughter, but these sandwiches are marvelous.”

			“So she’s a good cook?”

			“Not really, but her sandwiches are outstanding. Not that her other cooking is bad, but it does not measure up to her sandwich making for sheer good taste.”

			“Pure talent,” I said.

			“Exactly. That is it exactly. You understand her perfectly, it seems to me. I would feel comfortable entrusting her to your care.”

			“My care?” I said with more than a little surprise. “Just because I praised her sandwich making?”

			“Do you not like her sandwiches?”

			“I like them a lot,” I said, picturing the fat girl, but taking care not to let the thought of her interfere with my calculating. Then I took another sip of coffee.

			“It seems to me,” the old man said, “that you have something. Or else you lack something. Either way, it is the same thing.”

			“I often feel like that,” I said honestly.

			“We scientists call such a situation the evolutionary process. You will probably come to understand it, too, sooner or later, but evolution can be harsh. And what do you think is the harshest thing about evolution?”

			“I don’t know. Please tell me,” I said.

			“It is the fact that you cannot pick and choose. No one can pick and choose when it comes to evolution. The same is true of floods or avalanches or earthquakes. One never knows they are coming until they get there, and once they get there it is impossible to resist them.”

			“Hmm,” I said. “And evolution is what you were saying is going to happen to sound? Like, I’m going to lose the ability to speak?”

			“No, not exactly. Whether or not you can speak is of no essential significance. It is merely one step in the process.”

			“I don’t understand,” I said. I’m basically pretty honest. When I understand something, I say I understand it, and when I don’t understand something, I say I don’t understand it. Period. I’m never vague. Most problems arise from people being vague with each other. I happen to believe that most people use vague expressions because they’re unconsciously looking for difficulties. I can’t see it any other way.

			“But in any case, that is enough on this subject,” the old man said and gave another of his grating “ho-ho-ho” laughs. “I really should not be hindering your calculating with a lot of complicated talk. Let us just leave it at that.”

			I was not going to object. And since my watch alarm happened to ring just then, I went back to my washing. The old man took a slim stainless-steel rod from a desk drawer and, holding it in his right hand, he started walking back and forth in front of the shelves where the skulls were lined up, tapping on a skull every now and then and listening to its ring. He might as well have been a master violinist examining a Stradivarius collection and picking one up to test its pizzicato. The sounds alone told you of his inordinate love for skulls. I was amazed at the range of tones a skull could produce. One might sound like the clink of a whiskey glass, another like a knock on a giant flowerpot. Each one of them used to be covered in flesh and skin and to be filled (in varying volumes) with brains that would think about food and sex and whatnot, but those were all gone now, leaving behind nothing but a variety of sounds reminiscent of drinking glasses or flowerpots or lunch boxes or lead pipes or teakettles.

			I imagined my own head lined up on the shelf with skin and flesh stripped off and brains removed, being tapped by the old man with his stainless-steel rod. What a weird thing! What would the old man be able to learn from the sound of my skull? Would he read my memories? Or would he read things other than my memories? Either way, it was a disturbing thought.

			Death itself was not that frightening to me. As Shakespeare says, if you die this year you won’t die the next. It could be a truly simple matter depending on your attitude. But I couldn’t get too excited about having my skull lined up on a shelf and conked with a steel rod after I was dead. The thought of having something scooped out of my dead body was enough to get me down. Living is by no means easy, but at least I could do it at my own discretion, so I was all right with that, like Henry Fonda in Warlock. But after I was dead at least I wanted to be left to rest in peace. I felt I could understand why the pharaohs wanted to be sealed into pyramids.



* * *



			—

			The brain wash finally ended some hours later. I didn’t know exactly how long it took because I hadn’t timed it by the clock, but I guessed it must have been eight or nine hours judging by the extent of my fatigue. Quite an operation. I stood up from the sofa, stretched hugely, and took turns loosening up the muscles in all parts of my body. The manual issued to Calcutecs contained diagrams illustrating how to relax a total of twenty-six muscle groups. If one followed the procedures properly after a calculation, brain fatigue would not last long, which in turn would extend one’s useful life as a Calcutec. The Calcutec system was still not ten years old, so no one actually knew what the useful professional life of a Calcutec could be. Some said it was ten years, and others said twenty. Some even maintained that you could keep going until you died, while another view held that, sooner or later, all Calcutecs would end up as invalids. All of this was nothing but guesswork. The only thing I could do was loosen up the twenty-six muscle groups in keeping with the manual and leave the guesswork to those best suited to guesswork.

			Once I was through relaxing my muscles, I sat on the sofa with my eyes closed and gradually restored the union of my left and right brains. Now the whole process was finished, precisely as called for in the manual.

			The old man had placed what looked like the skull of a large dog on the desk and was now using calipers to measure each tiny part and recording the figures in pencil on a photocopy of the skull.

			“All through?” he asked me.

			I said that I was finished.

			“It was a long, hard day for you. Thank you very much.”

			“I’m going to go home now and get some sleep. I’ll do the shuffling at home tomorrow or the next day and bring the figures here for sure by noon three days from now. Will that do?”

			“Fine, fine,” the old man said, nodding. “But make sure you are on time. Not a minute after noon. There would be terrible consequences.”

			“I understand perfectly,” I said.

			“And please be careful not to let anybody take the list from you. That would be very bad for me. And for you.”

			“Don’t worry. We’re very well trained to prevent such things. I’m not about to let the figures be snatched away after all the calculating I’ve done.”

			From a special pocket tucked inside my pants, I pulled out a kind of billfold made of flexible metal for holding important documents, slid the list of figures inside and locked it.

			“I’m the only one who can open this lock. If someone other than me tries, the documents inside will be destroyed.”

			“An excellent device,” the old man said.

			I returned the document holder to the inner pocket of my pants.

			“Now, then,” he continued, “please help yourself to the rest of the sandwiches. I eat almost nothing while I am doing research, and I would prefer not to waste these last few.”

			I was still hungry, so I took him at his word and ate every last one. He had concentrated on the cucumber sandwiches, leaving only ham and cheese. I was not especially fond of cucumbers, so that was no problem for me. The old man poured me a fresh cup of coffee.



* * *



			—

			I put my rain slicker and goggles back on and headed down the underground road with my flashlight in hand. The old man was not with me this time.

			As I was leaving, he said to me, “I have chased the Murks out with sonic waves and they will not be invading for a while, so you should be all right. Even for them, it is frightening to come down here. All they know is what they hear from the Semiotecs, so it does not take much to scare them off.”

			Still, I felt uneasy walking alone in the darkness now that I had learned the so-called Murks were down there. They seemed all the creepier because I knew nothing about them—their habits or appearance or how I could defend myself against them. I walked back down the road along the subterranean river holding my flashlight up in my left hand and gripping my knife in my right hand.

			I felt saved when I saw the pink-suited fat girl at the bottom of the long aluminum ladder I had first climbed down, waving a flashlight toward me. She said something when I approached her, but I couldn’t hear her voice above the roar of the river, to which the pulled sound had apparently been restored, and I couldn’t see the movement of her lips in the darkness.

			The thing to do now was climb the ladder and get up to the light. I went first and she came after me. The ladder was awfully high. I hadn’t been frightened on the way down because the darkness had prevented me from realizing how high I was, but climbing upward one step at a time I could imagine the height of the drop and broke out in a cold sweat. It must have been three or four stories’ worth of climbing, and the wet aluminum rungs were slippery, requiring great care to avoid a disaster.

			I wanted to stop and take a breath, but the thought that she was climbing behind me kept me going, and I made it to the top in one go. I hated to think I was going to have to do this again in three days, but I resigned myself to it, knowing it was included in my bonus. Once we had passed through the closet and entered the first room, the girl took my goggles off and helped me out of my rain slicker. I slipped my boots off and put the flashlight down.

			“Did the work go well?” she asked. Her voice, which I was hearing now for the first time, was soft and clear.

			I looked at her and nodded. “We don’t come back when a job doesn’t go well. That’s the nature of the work.”

			“Thanks for telling my grandfather he had left my sound pulled. You really saved me. I had been like that for a solid week.”

			“Why didn’t you just write me a note to let me know? That would have been the quickest way to avoid confusion.”

			She walked around to the other side of the desk without answering and adjusted the position of both her large earrings.

			“That’s the rule,” she said.

			“Not communicating in writing?”

			“That, too,” she said.

			“Hmm.”

			“Anything connected with devolution is prohibited.”

			I was impressed and said so. They didn’t miss a trick.

			“How old are you?” the girl asked.

			“Thirty-five,” I said. “How about you?”

			“Seventeen,” she said. “You’re my first Calcutec. I haven’t met any Semiotecs, either.”

			“Are you really seventeen?” I asked in amazement.

			“Yes, I really am. I wouldn’t lie. I’m seventeen. But I don’t look it, do I?”

			“Not at all,” I said truthfully. “To me, you’ve got to be over twenty.”

			“Because I don’t want to look seventeen.”

			“And you aren’t going to school?”

			“I don’t want to talk about school—not now, at least. I’ll explain it to you next time.”

			“Hmm,” I said. She must have had her reasons.

			“Would you mind telling me,” she asked, “what life is like for a Calcutec?”

			“Well, when they’re not working, Calcutecs and Semiotecs are like everybody else: ordinary, normal people.”

			“Everybody may be ordinary, but they’re not normal.”

			“Well, that’s one way to look at the world,” I said. “All I’m saying is there’s nothing special about them. You wouldn’t notice if you happened to sit next to one on the subway. Like everybody else, they eat, they drink beer—oh, by the way, thanks for the sandwiches. They were delicious.”

			“Really?” she said with a sweet smile.

			“I’ve never had such tasty sandwiches. And believe me, I’ve eaten a lot of sandwiches.”

			“How about the coffee?”

			“That was delicious, too.”

			“Would you like another coffee before you go? We could talk a little more.”

			“No, thanks. I drank too much down there, couldn’t drink another drop. And besides, I’m in a hurry to go home and get some sleep.”

			“Oh, too bad.”

			“I agree, it is too bad.”

			“Anyhow, I’ll show you to the elevator. You can’t find it by yourself, can you? The corridors are such a maze.”

			“I’m sure you’re right.”

			From the desktop she picked up a round hatbox kind of thing and handed it to me. It was not very heavy for its size. If it really was a hatbox, the hat inside must be quite big. The box was wrapped round and round with thick packing tape to make it hard to open.

			“What’s this?” I asked.

			“A present from my grandfather. Don’t open it until you get home.”

			I shook it up and down, but the contents didn’t shift around or make any sound.

			“He says it’s fragile, so you should handle it with care.”

			“What could it be? A vase or something?”

			“I don’t know, he didn’t tell me. Just open it after you get home.”

			She opened her pink purse and handed me an envelope with a check inside. It was made out for a bit more money than I had been expecting. I put it into my wallet.

			“Would you like a receipt?” I asked.

			“No need,” she said.

			We left the office and walked to the elevator, following the same long corridors up and down and left and right. The pleasant clicking of her high heels echoed in the corridors as before. Her roundness didn’t concern me as much as it had the first time I saw her. I could almost forget that she was so round as we walked along side by side. I must have gotten used to it.

			“Are you married?” she asked.

			“No,” I said. “I used to be, but not anymore.”

			“Because you became a Calcutec? Is that why you got divorced? Everybody says Calcutecs can’t have families.”

			“That’s not true. Calcutecs can have families. I know lots of guys who manage fine. No question, more people think not having a family makes the job easier. Our work is hard on the nerves and involves a lot of danger. A wife and kids can get in the way.”

			“How was it for you?”

			“I became a Calcutec after I got divorced, so there was no connection between the two.”

			“Hmm,” she said. “Sorry for all the weird questions, but I never met a Calcutec before, so I started wondering about these things.”

			“That’s okay, I don’t mind.”

			“Another thing…I’ve heard that Calcutecs get tremendously horny when they’ve finished a job. Is that true?”

			“Hmm, I wonder, it may be true. One sure thing is that we use a whole different set of nerves when we’re working.”

			“Who do you sleep with when that happens? Do you have a particular lover?”

			“No, I don’t,” I said.

			“So who do you sleep with? I don’t suppose you’re one of those people with no interest in sex, or a homosexual? Or don’t you want to say?”

			“No, I don’t mind answering your questions,” I said. I am definitely not one of those people who like to blab about their private lives, but I don’t have anything to hide, so if someone asks me a straightforward question, I’ll give them a straightforward answer.

			“I sleep with a number of different girls at those times,” I said.

			“Would you ever sleep with me?”

			“Probably not.”

			“Why not?”

			“It’s a matter of principle. I don’t usually sleep with friends. There are too many issues involved when you sleep with a friend. And I don’t sleep with business acquaintances. This profession requires you to take on other people’s secrets, so you have to draw a line between the two.”

			“So it’s not just that I’m fat and ugly?”

			“You’re not that fat, and you are definitely not ugly.”

			“Hmm. So who do you sleep with? Girls you just happen to pick up?”

			“Yes, sometimes.”

			“Or do you pay for it?”

			“That, too, sometimes.”

			“Would you sleep with me if I said I’d do it for money?”

			“Probably not,” I said. “Our ages are too far apart. It makes me nervous to sleep with a girl who’s too much younger than I am.”

			“I’m different, though.”

			“Maybe so. But I don’t want to add to the troubles I already have. I want to live quietly if I can.”

			“My grandfather says the first man you sleep with should be at least thirty-five. If the sex drive builds up beyond a certain amount, he says, it ruins your mental clarity.”

			“Yes, he said that to me.”

			“Do you think it’s true?”

			“I don’t know, I’m not a biologist,” I said, “but I don’t think you can put it that simply. The amount of sexual desire differs enormously from one person to the next.”

			“Could you be one of those who has a lot?”

			I thought about it a bit and said, “I probably have just the usual amount.”

			“I don’t really know that much about my own sex drive,” the fat girl said. “So I’d like to try checking it out.”

			We came to the elevator while I was still wondering how I could reply to her. Like a well-trained dog, the elevator sat there with the doors open, waiting for me to get in.

			“Well, then, till next time,” she said.

			When I stepped aboard, the elevator doors closed soundlessly. I leaned against the stainless-steel wall and let out a sigh.





6


			End of the World


			Shadow


			When she set the first old dream on the table, I couldn’t tell for a while that the thing itself was an old dream. I stared down at it for a long time, after which I raised my head and looked at her standing there. She, too, was looking down at this old dream on the table without speaking. The thing didn’t seem like an object for which “old dream” could be an appropriate term. From the sound of the words, I had been imagining an ancient document or some sort of vague, incoherent something.

			“This is an old dream,” she said blankly, sounding less that she was trying to explain it to me than that she had a frustrated need to convince herself of the meaning of her own words. “Or, more precisely, this contains an old dream.”

			I nodded, still unsure of what I was hearing.

			“Pick it up,” she said.

			I took it lightly in my fingertips and examined its entire surface, wondering if I might find traces of old dreams on it somewhere, but nothing about it seemed to measure up to those words. It was just the skull of an animal—a not very big animal. The surface of the bone looked dry, as though it had been exposed to sunlight for a long time until its original color had faded away. Its long lower jaw looked as if it had been frozen slightly open at the moment it was about to tell a story, and its small eye sockets, having lost their contents long ago, opened up to an empty inner room.

			The skull was unnaturally light, which did much to diminish its physical presence. It had no lingering sense of life about it—at least none that I could feel. It had been stripped of all flesh and warmth and memories. There was a small indentation in the middle of the forehead, rough to the touch. I examined it and pressed my finger against it, and only then did I think to guess that a horn might have been wrenched away from this spot.

			“This is the skull of one of the unicorns that live in the town, isn’t it?” I asked.

			She nodded. “The old dreams sink into them and are sealed inside,” she said quietly.

			“And I’m supposed to read the old dreams from them?”

			“That’s the work of the Dreamreader,” she said.

			“And what do I do with the dreams after I’ve read them?”

			“You don’t do anything. All you have to do is read them.”

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “I see what you mean about reading the old dreams from this, but not that I don’t have to do any more than that. It seems as though the work has no meaning. There should be some purpose to the job, like writing down what I read somewhere, or arranging them or classifying them according to some scheme.”

			She shook her head. “I can’t really explain the meaning of the work, either,” she said. “Maybe you’ll come to understand it naturally as you go on reading the old dreams. In any case, the question of ‘meaning’ has very little to do with the work itself.”

			I returned the skull to the table and took another long look at it from a distance. A deep silence suggestive of nothingness enveloped the skull. The silence might not be coming from the outside but could have been welling up like smoke rising from the skull’s interior. In any case, it was a mysterious kind of silence. I felt as if the silence firmly linked the skull with the core of the earth. In its unchanging silence, the skull directed its empty gaze to a point in space.

			The more I looked at it, the more strongly I felt the skull was trying to tell me something. There seemed to be an air of sadness hovering about it, a sadness that I could not fully express even to myself. I no longer possessed words precise enough to make that possible.

			“I’ll do the reading now,” I said, and picked the skull up from the table again, gauging the weight in my hands. “I don’t seem to have any choice in the matter.”

			She gave me a short-lived smile, took the skull from my hands, and used two cloths to carefully wipe away the dust that had accumulated on its surface before returning the newly whitened skull to the table.

			“All right, then,” she said, “let me show you how to read the old dreams. I’m just going to go through the motions, of course, since I can’t actually read them. You’re the only one who can do that. Please watch me closely. First, you turn the skull to face you, like this. Then you gently place the fingertips of both hands on the skull’s temples, like this.”

			Fingers on the sides of the skull, she looked at me to be sure I was following her.

			“Then you stare straight at the forehead. Not intently, though, not frowning. You give it a soft, gentle look. But you must never look away. No matter how strong the glare might become, you must never avert your gaze.”

			“Glare?”

			“Yes, that’s right. When you look straight at it, the skull starts to give off light and heat, and you gently trace the light with your fingertips. You should be able to read the old dreams that way.”

			I mentally ran through the procedures she had explained step by step. Of course, I could not imagine what the light she had mentioned might look like or how it might feel, but I was sure I had learned the steps. As I gazed at her slim fingers touching the skull, I was struck by an intense feeling of déjà vu, as though I had seen this skull somewhere before. Its bleached whiteness and the indentation in its forehead gave me the same kind of strangely unsettling sensation I had experienced the first time I had seen her face. I could not tell, however, whether this was an accurate fragment of memory or an illusion caused by a momentary warping of time or place.

			“Is something wrong?” she asked.

			I shook my head. “No, not at all. I was just thinking. I think I’ve got the steps down now. All I have to do is give it a try.”

			“Let’s get dinner out of the way first,” she said. “We probably won’t have time for that once we start.”

			She brought a pot from the small kitchen in back and set it on the stove to warm. It was a vegetable stew with onions and potatoes. Once it was heated and beginning to give off a pleasant sound, she spooned it onto dishes and brought it to the table with some walnut bread.

			We sat across from each other, eating but not speaking. The food was very plain and its seasonings were unfamiliar to me, but the flavors were far from unpleasant. By the time we were through eating, I was feeling good and warm. Then she served tea. It was green and had a bitter herbal taste. The dreamreading was not as easy as she had made it sound. The streams of light emerging from the skull were so fine and convoluted that I had trouble following them however much I tried to concentrate my attention in my fingertips. Still, my fingertips could feel the presence of the old dreams without question. They came to me as a kind of buzzing and a chaotic flow of images, though my fingers were unable to grasp the images clearly. I knew only that they were there.

			It was after ten o’clock by the time I had finished reading two dreams and returned the exhausted skull to her. I took off my glasses and slowly rubbed my eyeballs to relieve their numbness.

			“You must be tired,” she said.

			“Yes, a little,” I replied. “My eyes aren’t used to the process yet. They absorb the old dreams’ light in a way that gives me a headache deep inside—not a bad headache, but my vision blurs and I can’t keep focused on any one thing.”

			“It’s like that at first for everyone,” she said. “Your eyes aren’t accustomed to it, and you can’t read the dreams very well. But don’t worry, you’ll get used to it soon enough. Let’s take it slow for now.”

			“That would probably be best,” I said.

			She put the old dreams back in the stacks and started preparing to leave, opening the lid of the stove and scooping out the red-burning coals, which she buried in a sand-filled bucket.

			“You mustn’t let the fatigue enter your heart,” she said. “My mother always used to say that. Fatigue might take over your body, but make sure you keep your heart your own.”

			“She was right,” I said.

			“But to tell the truth, I don’t really know what the heart is—what it means exactly, or how you use it. It’s just a word I learned from her.”

			“The heart is not a thing you use,” I said. “It’s just there. Like the wind. All you have to do is feel it move.”

			She put the lid back on the stove and carried the enamel kettle and cups into the back to wash them. When she was through with the washing, she wrapped herself in a coat of coarse blue material. It was a drab blue, as though a patch of sky had been torn off and spent years forgetting its original color. She stood by the extinguished stove for a while, lost in thought.

			“Did you come here from another land?” she asked as if the question had suddenly occurred to her.

			“Yes, you’re right,” I said.

			“What was it like there?”

			“I don’t know, I don’t remember,” I said. “Sorry, but I can’t recall a thing. All memories of my old world seem to have gone off with my shadow when it was taken from me. I do know it was a faraway place.”

			“But you understand about the heart, don’t you?”

			“Yes, that I think I understand.”

			“My mother had a heart,” she said. “But she disappeared when I was seven years old. Probably because, like you, she had what she called a heart.”

			“She ‘disappeared’?”

			“Yes, that’s right. But let’s not talk about that anymore. It’s bad luck here to talk about people who have disappeared. Tell me about the town where you used to live. You must be able to recall one thing, at least?”

			“I can recall two things,” I said, “but that’s all. The town where I lived was not surrounded by a wall, and all of us who lived there used to walk around dragging our shadows along with us.”



* * *



			—

			Yes, that was true: we used to walk around dragging our shadows along with us. I had had to leave my shadow with Gatekeeper when I arrived at this town.

			“You can’t come in with your shadow attached,” he had said. “You have to let it go or forget about coming in here: one or the other.”

			I had let my shadow go.

			Gatekeeper had stood me on an open square of land next to the gate. The three p.m. sun captured my shadow on the ground in sharp outline. “Hold still,” Gatekeeper said to me. He took a knife from his pocket and buried its pointed tip into the gap between the shadow and the ground, rocked it from side to side until it was down into the gap, and deftly peeled the shadow from the surface.

			The shadow squirmed very slightly as if in resistance, but finally came away from the ground drained of strength and knelt on a bench. Torn away from the body, the shadow looked far more worn out and shabby than I would have expected it to.

			Gatekeeper folded his knife and returned it to his pocket. Then the two of us spent a while observing the appearance of a shadow away from its body.

			“Strange, don’t you think, when it’s separated like this?” he asked. “A shadow serves no purpose at all. It’s just deadweight.”

			I edged closer to my shadow and said, “Sorry, but it looks as if I’ll have to separate from you for a little while. I wasn’t planning on this, but the way things have worked out, we can’t avoid it. Can you put up with staying here alone for a bit?”

			“How long is ‘a bit’?” my shadow asked.

			I said I didn’t know.

			“Don’t you think you’ll come to regret this?” my shadow whispered to me. “I don’t know all the details, but isn’t it kind of strange for a person and his shadow to be separated? It seems wrong to me, and this place seems wrong to me. A person can’t live without his shadow, and a shadow can’t exist without a person. Yet here we are, existing and living separately. There’s something wrong with that, don’t you think?” The shadow shook his head. “The air here is no good for me. It’s different from other places’ air. It can’t be good for me or for you. Why did you let me go? How could you do such a thing?”

			But it was too late. My shadow had already been torn away from me.

			“This is probably just temporary,” I said. “It can’t go on forever. We’ll be together again.”

			The shadow gave a little sigh and looked up at me with unfocused eyes. The three p.m. sun shone down on the two of us. I had no shadow, and he had no body.

			“I wonder,” he said. “I’ve got a bad feeling about this. Let’s look for a chance to escape from here and go back together to the world we came from.”

			“We can’t,” I said. “I don’t know how to go back. And neither do you. Am I right?”

			“Not now, at least. But I’ll find a way back, even if it costs me my life. I want to see you now and then, and talk. You’ll come and see me, won’t you?”

			I nodded and touched his shoulder before returning to Gatekeeper. While the shadow and I were talking, Gatekeeper had been gathering rocks scattered around the open square and throwing them where they would not be in the way.

			When I approached him, Gatekeeper wiped the white dirt on his hands with his shirttails and rested one of those big hands against my back. I couldn’t tell whether he was trying to be friendly or just reminding me what big, strong hands he had.

			“I’ll take good care of your shadow,” he said. “I’ll feed him three meals a day and let him out for a walk once a day. So relax, you’ve got nothing to worry about.”

			“Can I see him now and then?”

			“Hmm,” said Gatekeeper. “Sure, you can see him—if the timing is right and the situation permits and I feel like it.”

			“So, then, what should I do if I want you to give my shadow back?”

			“Sounds as if you still don’t know how things work here,” Gatekeeper said with his hand still touching my back. “In this town, nobody is allowed to have a shadow, and once we let you in here, you can never leave again. Which means the question you just asked makes no sense at all.”

			And so it was that I lost my shadow.



* * *



			—

			When we left the library, I said I’d see her home.

			“You don’t have to do that,” she said. “I’m not afraid of the dark, and your house is in the opposite direction.”

			“I’d like to see you home,” I said. “I’m still feeling worked up from the dreamreading. Even if I go back to my room, I’m not going to be able to sleep right away.”

			Walking side by side, we crossed the Old Bridge heading south. An early spring breeze, still chilly, swayed the branches of the willows on the river’s sandbar, and the oddly vertical light of the moon gave the cobblestones beneath our feet a lustrous glow. The air was damp and heavy as it crept across the ground. She undid the band that held her hair in back, brought the hair around to the front in a single bunch, and tucked it inside her coat.

			“You have beautiful hair,” I said.

			“Thank you.”

			“Has anyone ever told you that before?”

			“No, never. You’re the first one,” she said.

			“How does it feel to be complimented?”

			“I don’t know,” she said, looking at me with her hands thrust into her coat pockets. “I understand that you complimented me on my hair. But that’s not really all you mean, is it? My hair produced something else inside you, and you’re talking about that, aren’t you?”

			“No, not at all, I’m talking about your hair.”

			She gave me a little smile as if searching for something in the air. “I’m sorry,” she said, “I’m just having a hard time getting used to the way you speak.”

			“That’s all right,” I said, “you’ll get used to it soon enough.”



* * *



			—

			Her home was in the workers’ district, a run-down quarter southwest of the factory district. The factory district itself was a sad place, practically abandoned. The Grand Canal used to be beautiful and brimming with clear water busily crisscrossed by lighters and launches, but now its locks were closed and its water dried up, exposing the channel bed in places where pale, hardened mud welled up like the wrinkled bellies of gigantic prehistoric creatures. The banks were lined with broad stone steps for loading and unloading freight, but they were no longer in use, and tall weeds had taken firm root in cracks between the stones. Old bottles and rusted machine parts poked their heads out of the mud, and next to them lay a flat-decked wooden boat slowly rotting.

			Deserted factories lined the canals. Their gates were locked, their window glass gone, their walls covered with ivy, their fire-escape railings rusted and broken, and weeds sprouted everywhere.

			After passing through the rows of factories, we came to the workers’ living quarters, a cluster of old five-story buildings. She told me they had once been elegant apartment houses for the rich, but the times had changed and the buildings had been partitioned into small spaces where the poor workers could live. Now, though, the workers were no longer workers. Most of the factories that had employed them were closed. Their skills were no longer of any use, and all they could do was make assorted knickknacks for the town in response to need. Her father had been one of those workers.

			We crossed a short stone bridge without handrails over the last of the canals, and there we came to the district where her building stood. Ladderlike galleries reminiscent of the battlements of medieval castles connected each building with the next.

			By then it was close to midnight, and most windows were dark. She led me by the hand through the maze of passageways, walking quickly as if to avoid the eyes of a giant bird stalking humans from above. We came to a stop in front of one of the buildings, and there she said goodbye.

			“Good night, sleep well,” I said.

			Then I climbed the slope of West Hill and returned to my room alone.





7


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Skulls, Lauren Bacall, Library


			I caught a taxi back to my apartment. The sun had long since set by the time I exited the building, and the streets were full of people leaving work. That, plus the rain that was falling, made it hard to find a cab.

			Finding a cab always took time for me in any case. For safety’s sake, I always let at least the first two empty cabs go by. The Semiotecs were said to have a number of fake taxis they often used to pick up Calcutecs who had just finished a job and spirit them away. That might have been nothing but a rumor. Nothing like that had ever happened to me or anyone I knew, but it was always best to be careful.

			I normally took the subway or bus, but that night I was extremely tired and sleepy, it was raining, and I hated the thought of getting on a crowded rush-hour train or bus, so I decided on a cab despite the extra time involved. I started drifting off several times in the cab, but I fought hard against it. I could sleep all I wanted once I was back in my own bed. Falling asleep would have been too dangerous.

			I concentrated all my attention on the baseball game coming over the cab’s radio. I know hardly anything about baseball, so to help me concentrate I decided to root for the team that was then at bat and to hate the team in the field. My team was losing three to one. There were two outs and a man on second when the batter made a clean hit, but the runner panicked and stumbled between second and third and was tagged for the third out, ending the inning without my team scoring. The sportscaster panned the runner, and I had to agree with him. Anybody can get nervous and stumble, but you shouldn’t do it between second and third in a baseball game. This may have rattled my team’s pitcher. He delivered a stupid fastball to their leadoff batter, who in turn knocked a home run into the left-field stands, making it four to one.

			The score was still four to one when the taxi reached my apartment. I paid and got out, bringing with me the hatbox and my foggy brain. The rain was ending.

			There was nothing in my mailbox, and my answering machine had no messages. No one had business with me, it seemed. Fine. I didn’t have business with anyone. I put ice in a glass, made myself a big whiskey on the rocks, and added a little soda. Then I got undressed, crawled into bed, and sat there with my back against the headboard, sipping my drink. I would soon be out cold, but I was not about to miss my sweet little end-of-day ritual. The brief moment between getting into bed and falling asleep was my favorite time of day. I would get into bed with a drink and listen to music or read a book. I liked this time the same way I liked beautiful sunsets or clean air.

			I was about halfway through with my whiskey when the phone rang. The telephone was on a round table about two meters from the foot of my bed. I had no intention of getting out of the bed I was so comfortably settled into and walking over to the phone, so I just half watched it from a distance as it kept on ringing. It must have rung thirteen or fourteen times, but I didn’t let it bother me. In the old animated movies, a phone would shake every time it rang, but of course that didn’t really happen. The phone just sat there on the table, ringing. I went on drinking and watching it.

			Next to the phone I had laid my wallet and knife and the hatbox I had received as a parting gift. Only then did it occur to me that I ought to open the box and check its contents before the day ended. It might contain something that needed refrigerating, or something alive, or something important. But I was too exhausted to bother. And besides, if any of those things were in there, it would have made the most sense for the person who gave the box to me to let me know that. After the phone stopped ringing, I drank down the rest of my whiskey, turned out the light by the head of the bed, and closed my eyes. Immediately, sleep came over me like a giant black net falling out of the sky and I didn’t give a damn about anything.



* * *



			—

			 				I awoke in the gloomy half-light. The hands of my clock were showing 6:15, but I couldn’t tell whether it was a.m. or p.m. I slipped on my pants, stepped outside my front door, and looked at my neighbor’s place. The morning paper was lying there, so at least I knew that it was morning. Taking the paper comes in handy at times like this. Maybe I should take one, too.

			In any case, this meant I had slept some ten hours. My body was asking for even more rest, and there was nothing I needed to do that day, so I considered going back to bed for another snooze, but I changed my mind and decided to get up. Nothing feels quite as good as waking with the sun on a brand-new day. I gave myself a good, long washdown in the shower and shaved. Then I did my usual exercises for twenty minutes and ate what I could find for breakfast. The refrigerator was practically empty, which meant I would have to replenish my food supply. I sat at the kitchen table, drinking orange juice, and penciled a shopping list on a memo pad. I filled one page and flipped to the next, but then it occurred to me that the supermarket would not be open yet. I decided to go out for lunch and continue on to the grocery store.

			I took my dirty clothes from the bathroom hamper, threw them into the washing machine, and was in the middle of scrubbing my sneakers in the kitchen sink when I remembered the mysterious gift I had received from the old man. Leaving off the sneaker washing with only the right one done, I wiped my hands with the kitchen towel, went back to the bedroom, and picked up the hatbox. It still seemed light for its size—rather creepily so. Yes, it was definitely lighter than it should have been. Something about it bothered me, based not so much on specific evidence as on professional intuition.

			I looked all around me. The room was strangely quiet, as though it had been subjected to sound pulling, but when I cleared my throat to check, it sounded like a proper clearing of a throat. I flicked open the blade of my knife and rapped the handle against the table. That, too, produced the proper knocking. I had the sense that, once you’ve experienced sound pulling, you might develop a tendency to be suspicious of silence. I opened the balcony window and heard both the roar of traffic and the twittering of birds, which came as a relief. Evolution or no, the world should be full of sounds.

			Next I used my knife to cut the tape holding the hatbox together, taking care not to damage the contents. At the top were crumpled sheets of newspaper. I opened a few of the sheets and looked them over, but they were just random pages of a three-week-old Mainichi Shimbun. I got a plastic bag from the kitchen and filled it with crumpled paper to throw away. Altogether, there were two weeks’ worth of newspaper stuffed in the box—all Mainichi Shimbun. The next thing in the box was a loose layer of polyethylene or Styrofoam packing peanuts. I started scooping them out with both hands and throwing them into the trash bag. I still didn’t know what was in the box, but it was turning out to be a ridiculously time-consuming gift. When I was halfway through the packing peanuts, I came to a newspaper-wrapped package and was beginning to get fed up. I went to the kitchen, brought a can of Coke from the refrigerator, and sat on the bed, sipping it slowly and absentmindedly trimming my nails with the knife blade. A black-breasted bird showed up on the balcony and started pecking noisily, as always, at the scraps of bread scattered on the table out there. It was a peaceful morning.

			Finally, I felt ready to get back to the hatbox. I turned to the table and gently lifted out the object wrapped in newspaper. Over the paper had been wound several lengths of packing tape, making it look like some kind of contemporary art piece. It was shaped like a long, narrow watermelon, and of course had no weight to speak of. I moved the box and knife to the floor and carefully tore off the tape and newspaper on the now-roomy table. What finally came out was an animal skull.

			Oh, great. Whatever possessed the old man to think I would be glad to receive an animal skull? Nobody in their right mind would even think to gift someone with an animal skull.

			The skull looked like a horse’s but was much smaller. Given my limited knowledge of biology, the skull had almost certainly once sat on the shoulders of a not-very-big grass-eating mammal with hooves and a long, narrow face. I brought to mind several such animals: deer, goat, sheep, antelope, reindeer, donkey. There were probably some others, but I couldn’t think of them offhand.

			I decided to put the skull on top of the TV for the time being. It was not great to look at, but I couldn’t think of anywhere else to put it. Hemingway would have put it over the fireplace next to an elk’s head, but of course I didn’t have a fireplace. Far from it: I didn’t even have a sideboard or a shoe cabinet. Which is why, aside from the top of the TV, I didn’t have any place to put the whatever-it-was’s skull.

			When I pulled the last of the packing material out of the hatbox, I found in the bottom a long, thin object wrapped in newspaper. I unrolled it to find the stainless-steel rod the old man had used to tap on the skulls. I held it and looked at it for a while. In contrast to the skull, the rod was heavy and had the same kind of intimidating quality as the ivory baton that Furtwängler had used to conduct the Berlin Philharmonic.

			I did the most natural thing under the circumstances—walked over to the TV and lightly tapped on the forehead of the animal skull. It gave off a low, breathy sound like the snuffling of a large dog. I had been anticipating more of a hard-edged ringing or knocking, so this came as something of a surprise, but even so, I had no reason to complain. As a practical matter, there would have been no point to complaining. It wouldn’t change the sound, and even if the sound did change, that would have done nothing to change the situation.

			When I got tired of looking at and tapping on the skull, I left the TV and sat on the bed, balanced the phone on my lap, and dialed the System’s official agent to check on my work schedule. My supervisor answered and said I was scheduled for a job in four days: did I have a problem with that? I said I did not. It crossed my mind to ask him if I was in fact allowed to perform shuffling so as to forestall any future problems, but I let it go because it was likely to turn into a long, involved thing. The old man’s forms had been official, and I had been properly paid. Besides, the old man had said he hadn’t gone through the agent in order to preserve secrecy. There was no point in stirring up trouble.

			To add to that, I wasn’t too crazy about my supervisor. He was a tall, skinny guy around thirty years old who was convinced he knew everything. If possible, I wanted to avoid putting myself into a position of having to work out anything complicated with a guy like that.

			Once I had dispensed with the administrative arrangements as simply as possible, I ended the call, sat on the living-room sofa with a can of beer, and watched a videotape of Humphrey Bogart’s Key Largo. I was crazy about Lauren Bacall in that movie. Bacall is good in The Big Sleep, too, of course, but I always felt she had an extra something special in Key Largo.

			As I sat there with my eyes on the TV, I couldn’t seem to stop them from drifting up to the animal skull on top, which made it hard to concentrate on the movie. Around the time the hurricane struck, I gave up on watching the rest of the film and stopped the tape. Sipping my beer, I went on sitting there, absentmindedly staring at the skull. The more I looked at it, the more I felt that I had seen it somewhere before, but I couldn’t tell where. I pulled a T-shirt from my dresser drawer and draped it over the skull. Then I was able to watch the rest of Key Largo and concentrate, finally, on Lauren Bacall.

			At eleven o’clock, I went out to the supermarket near the station and laid in a random stock of groceries. Then I went to the liquor store, where I bought a bottle of red wine, some soda water, and orange juice. I retrieved a jacket and two sheets from the cleaners, bought some ballpoint pens, envelopes, and stationery at the stationery store, bought the finest-grain whetstone they had at the hardware store, two magazines at the bookstore, some lightbulbs and cassette tapes at the electrical-appliance store, and Polaroid film at the photo shop. While I was at it, I went to a record store and bought a few records. The back seat of my compact car filled up quickly. I probably have an innate fondness for shopping. On those rare occasions when I do go out, I always end up gathering a huge bunch of little things, like a squirrel in November.

			Even my car was one I had bought strictly for shopping. I couldn’t handle all the stuff I had bought that day, so with my arms full of shopping bags, I ducked into a used-car dealer that happened to catch my eye. They had so many kinds of cars, and I know so little about cars and don’t really like them, I ended up telling the salesman, “I’ll take anything as long as it’s not too big.”

			The middle-aged salesman brought out a catalog and showed me all sorts of cars to help me decide, but I didn’t want to waste time looking at those and explained to him I wanted a car strictly for shopping. “I’m not going to be getting on the expressway, I’m not going to be taking girls out for drives or doing family trips. I don’t need a high-performance engine or air conditioner or car stereo or moonroof or high-performance tires. I want a dependable, low-maintenance compact car with tight turning radius, low emissions, quiet engine, and decent performance. If you can make it dark blue, that’d be perfect.”

			He recommended a yellow compact domestic model. I didn’t like the color much, but it handled pretty well and had a very good turning radius. Its clean lines and total lack of extras suited my taste perfectly, and it was old enough to have a low price.

			“It’s a car,” the middle-aged salesman said. “If you ask me, everybody’s crazy.”

			I had to agree with him.

			That was how I came to own a shopping car. I was never going to use it for anything else.

			When I had finished shopping, I parked in the lot of a nearby restaurant, ordered a beer, shrimp salad, and onion rings, and ate alone in silence. The shrimp were too cold, and the onion rings were a little soggy. I looked around the restaurant but saw no customers complaining to waitresses or smashing plates on the floor, so I decided to eat everything without making a fuss. High expectations lead to disappointment.

			I could see the elevated expressway from the restaurant window. Cars of every style and color were speeding by. As I watched them, I thought about the strange old man and his fat granddaughter from yesterday’s job. Even in the most sympathetic terms, they seemed to live in an abnormal world that far surpassed my understanding. That ridiculous elevator, the gigantic cavern inside the closet, the Murks, the sound pulling: each and every thing was abnormal. On top of which, I had been given an animal skull of all things on my way out.

			To while away the time waiting for my coffee after lunch I mentally reviewed the fat girl’s physical features one by one: her rectangular earrings, her pink suit, her high heels, her calves, the layer of flesh on the back of her neck, the way her face was put together. I could recall each detail fairly clearly, but when I tried to combine them into an overall image, the result was surprisingly vague, probably because I hadn’t slept with a fat girl lately and, for that reason, couldn’t picture that kind of body.

			I stopped thinking about the fat girl’s naked body, paid my bill, and left the restaurant. From there I went to the neighborhood library and asked the slim, long-haired girl at the reference desk, “Do you think you might have any materials on mammal skulls?”

			She had her nose buried deep in a paperback, but she looked up at me and said, “Pardon?”

			“Materials / on / mammal / skulls,” I repeated with clarifying pauses.

			“Mammal skulls,” she said as if singing a song, which made it sound like the title of a poem as announced by the poet before a recitation. I wondered if she repeated the words of all patrons that way whatever the subject matter—the history of the puppet theater, or an introduction to tai chi—like that. It’d be fun if poems with those titles really existed, I thought.

			She mulled over the problem for a while, biting her lower lip. “Just a moment, please. I’ll have a look,” she said, turning her back to me as she typed “mammal” on her computer keyboard. Some twenty book titles appeared on the screen. She used a light pen to delete two-thirds of them. Then, after saving the remainder, she typed in “skeleton.” Seven or eight book titles came up, two of which she lined up under the saved titles. Libraries had changed a lot since the old days. The time when there used to be checkout cards in pockets glued to the inside back covers of books felt like something from a dream. When I was a kid, I used to enjoy looking at all the due dates stamped on those cards.

			All the while she was skillfully manipulating her keyboard, I had my eye on her slim back and long hair. I was seriously undecided as to whether or not it was all right for me to be finding her attractive. She was very nice looking, and kind, and apparently intelligent, and she spoke as if announcing poem titles, so I couldn’t think of a single reason not to find her attractive.

			She pushed a button producing a printout of the information on her monitor screen and handed the sheet to me.

			“Please choose from among these nine titles,” she said.

			 				Mammals in Outline

				Mammals: An Illustrated Encyclopedia

				Mammalian Skeletons

				Mammalian History

				I as a Mammal

				Mammalian Anatomy

				The Mammalian Brain

				Animal Skeletons

				The Bones Speak to Us



			My library card enabled me to borrow up to three volumes at a time. I chose 2, 3, and 8. The titles I as a Mammal and The Bones Speak to Us also looked interesting but perhaps less directly related to my immediate problem, so I decided to leave those for next time.

			“I’m sorry, but Mammals: An Illustrated Encyclopedia is for library use only. I can’t check it out to you,” she said, scratching her temple with a ballpoint pen.

			“Tell you what,” I said. “This is really important. I’ll be sure to return it tomorrow morning and not get you in trouble. Is there any way you can let me borrow it overnight?”

			“The Illustrated Encyclopedia series is very popular, and if my boss found out I had let a ‘Library Use Only’ book go out, she’d be really upset with me.”

			“It’d just be overnight. She’d never know.”

			I watched her trying to make up her mind, pressing her tongue against her bottom teeth. What a cute pink tongue she had!

			“Okay,” she said, “but just this once. Really. Please bring it back by nine thirty tomorrow morning.”

			“Thanks,” I said.

			“That’s all right,” she answered.

			“I want to show you my appreciation,” I said. “What’s the best way to thank you?”

			“There’s a Baskin-Robbins across the street. Could you get me a double cone with pistachio on the bottom and coffee rum on top? Can you remember that?”

			“Double cone. Coffee rum on top. Pistachio on the bottom,” I said.

			I headed out to the Baskin-Robbins while she went into the stacks to find my books. She was still not back at the desk when I returned with her ice cream. I stood there waiting with the cone in my left hand. Every once in a while, some of the old guys reading newspapers on benches would cast curious glances back and forth between my face and the ice cream I was holding. Fortunately, it was hard enough so that I had time until it would begin melting. Just standing there without eating “my” ice cream, I felt nervous as if I were some kind of abandoned bronze statue.

			Her half-read paperback was lying face down on the desk, looking like a miniature rabbit that had dropped off to sleep. The second volume of a biography of H. G. Wells, Time Traveler, it was not a library book but appeared to be her own personal copy. Lined up next to it lay three nicely sharpened pencils, and beside those were scattered seven or eight paper clips. What was this with the paper clips everywhere?

			Maybe paper clips had suddenly started to take over the world? Or maybe it was just some coincidence and I was more concerned about them than I ought to be? But no, I couldn’t quite believe that. Everywhere I went, there seemed to be paper clips scattered deliberately so that I couldn’t help noticing them. Something was bugging me. All kinds of things were bugging me these days—animal skulls, paper clips, stuff like that. I couldn’t help feeling that they were connected somehow, but I had absolutely no idea what possible connection there could be between animal skulls and paper clips.

			Soon the long-haired girl came back with three books in her arms. She handed them to me and took the ice-cream cone in exchange, bending down so that people couldn’t see her eating behind the counter. I leaned over and looked down at her. The nape of her neck, unguarded, looked very pretty.

			“Thanks a lot,” she said.

			“No, thank you,” I said. “By the way, what do you use these paper clips for?”

			“Paper…clips,” she echoed me as if singing. “Paper clips are used to clip pieces of paper together. I’m sure you know that. Paper clips are everywhere. Everybody uses them.”

			She was right, of course. I thanked her and left the library with the books in my arms. Paper clips were everywhere. For a thousand yen, you could buy a lifetime supply. I stopped by a stationer’s and bought a thousand yen’s worth of paper clips. Then I went home.



* * *



			—

			Back in my room, I put the groceries away in the refrigerator, tightly wrapping the meat and fish in plastic and freezing some for later. I froze the bread and the coffee beans, too. The block of tofu I floated in a bowl of water. The beer went into the refrigerator along with the vegetables, though I took care to keep the older vegetables closer to the front. I hung my clothes in the wardrobe and lined up the soaps and detergents on the kitchen shelf. Then I scattered a handful of paper clips next to the skull on the TV.

			They made an odd combination—as odd as a feather pillow and an ice scraper, or lettuce and a bottle of ink. I went out to the balcony and looked at them from a distance, but the impression they made on me didn’t change. They had nothing in common. But somewhere there must have been a secret tunnel connecting the two—a tunnel I didn’t know about or couldn’t remember.

			I sat on the bed and stared at the top of the TV for a long time, but nothing came to mind. Time shot by—that was all. An ambulance and a right-wing propaganda truck passed through the neighborhood. I felt like a whiskey but resisted the temptation. I had to keep my brain working sober for a while. Soon the right-wing propaganda truck came back down the same street. They had probably taken a wrong turn. The winding streets in this neighborhood were easy to get lost in.

			I gave up and left the bed. Sitting at the kitchen table, I flipped through pages of my library books, looking first through the medium-sized herbivorous mammals and then checking out the individual skeletons one at a time. There were far more medium-sized herbivorous mammals than I had imagined. Deer types numbered no fewer than thirty.

			I brought the skull from the TV to the kitchen table and checked it against each of the books’ illustrations. I spent an hour and twenty minutes comparing it with ninety-three different animal skull types, but not one of them matched. Another dead end. I piled the three books on the corner of the table and raised my arms in a big stretch. It was hopeless.

			I gave up and lay on the bed, watching a videotape of John Ford’s The Quiet Man, when the front doorbell rang. I looked out through the peephole’s fisheye lens to find a middle-aged man in a Tokyo Gas uniform standing there. I cracked the door open with the chain in place and asked what he wanted.

			“Periodic gas-leak inspection,” he said.

			“Just a second,” I answered, and went back to the bedroom, took my knife from the desktop, and put it in my pocket before opening the door. They had just done a “periodic gas-leak inspection” the month before, and there was something fishy about the man’s behavior.

			I feigned unconcern and went on watching The Quiet Man. Using a device that looked like a blood-pressure meter, the man first inspected the gas in the bathroom and went on to the kitchen, where the animal skull was still out on the kitchen table. I left the TV volume up and tiptoed over to the kitchen door. Sure enough, the man was slipping the skull into a black vinyl bag. I flicked my knife open and leaped into the kitchen, circling around behind him, where I pinned one arm behind his back and thrust my blade under his nose. He panicked and dropped the bag on the table.

			“I’m sorry, I didn’t mean any harm,” the man said, his voice shaking. “I saw it and wanted it and stuck it in the bag. It was just a sudden impulse. Please forgive me.”

			“No way,” I said. Who ever heard of a gas inspector stealing an animal skull from a kitchen table on a sudden impulse? “Now tell me the truth or I’ll slit your throat open.” My words sounded phony even to me, but he didn’t seem to think so.

			“I’m sorry, I’ll tell you the truth. Please forgive me,” he said. “Some guys paid me to steal this. I was walking down the street when the two of them came over and handed me fifty thousand yen to ‘do a job.’ They said there was another fifty thousand in it for me if I brought it to them. I didn’t want to do it, but one of them was a huge guy who looked like he could give me a hard time. I had no choice. Please. Don’t kill me. I’ve got two daughters in high school.”

			“They’re both in high school?” I asked, a little concerned.

			“Yes, first year and third year,” he said.

			“Oh, really? What high school are they in?”

			“The older one’s in Shimura Municipal, the younger one’s in Yotsuya Futaba,” he said. It was a weird enough combination to be real. I decided to believe him.

			To make sure, I pressed the blade against his neck while I pulled his wallet out of his back pocket and went through it. He had sixty-seven thousand yen in cash, including five brand-new ten-thousand-yen bills. I found a Tokyo Gas employee ID card, and a color family photo. Both girls were wearing colorful New Year’s kimonos, but neither was especially good-looking. They were about the same height, so I couldn’t tell which one was the Shimura student and which Futaba. He was also carrying a National Railways commuter pass from Sugamo to Shinanomachi. As far as I could tell, he seemed harmless, so I lowered the knife and told him he could go, giving his wallet back.

			“Thank you,” he said. “But what’s gonna happen to me now? I took the money but I won’t be bringing the goods.”

			I said I didn’t know any better than he did what was going to happen to him. The Semiotecs—I was pretty sure I was dealing with Semiotecs here—did whatever they damn well pleased in any situation. That was their way to prevent us from reading their behavior patterns. They might gouge out the man’s eyes or give him the other fifty thousand yen and thank him for his troubles. Nobody ever knew with them.

			“You say one of them is a big guy?” I asked.

			“Yes, huge. The other guy’s a shrimp, though. Maybe under five feet. He was the better-dressed one. Both of them were scary.”

			I told him how he could get out through the back of the parking garage. The rear of my apartment building faced a narrow alley which was hard to see from the street. With any luck, he could make it home without the two guys catching him.

			“Thank you very much,” he said, sounding relieved. “You don’t have to tell the Gas Company about this, do you?”

			I told him I wouldn’t say anything. I pushed him out, locked the door, and chained it. Then I sat at the kitchen table, set my folded knife down, and pulled the skull out of the vinyl bag. One thing was sure: the Semiotecs were trying to get ahold of this skull, which meant that something about it was important to them.

			They and I were on equal footing. I had the skull but didn’t know its significance. They knew its significance—or at least had some vague idea of what it might be—but they didn’t have the skull. Fifty-fifty. I had two courses of action I could choose between. One was to contact the System, explain the situation to them, and get them to either protect me or take the skull somewhere. The other was to contact the fat girl and ask her to explain the significance of the skull to me. I was not eager to drag the System into the current situation, though, which would probably end up with me being subjected to intense grilling. I didn’t like having to deal with big organizations. They’re too inflexible, and they take too much time and trouble. And they have too many stupid people.

			Realistically speaking, though, getting in touch with the fat girl was also impossible. I didn’t know her office phone number. I could just go straight to her building, but it was too dangerous for me to leave my apartment now, and I couldn’t believe they would let me into such a tightly secured building without an appointment.

			In the end I decided to do nothing.

			I picked up the stainless-steel rod and tried tapping the top of the skull again. It made the same low, breathy sound as before, a strangely sad sound that might have been the cry of the nameless, unknown animal while it was still alive. I picked up the skull and studied it closely, hoping to find the source of the odd sound. Then I put it down and gave it another tap. It made the same low, breathy sound, but the more closely I observed it, the more the sound seemed to be emanating from one single place on the skull.

			I tapped it again and again until I was able to determine exactly where the sound was coming from: a shallow indentation two centimeters in diameter in the middle of the forehead. I ran my fingertip lightly around the circumference of the indentation. It felt a little grainy, unlike normal bone, as if something had been violently wrenched from the skull…something…such as…a horn.

			A horn?

			If in fact the thing torn away had been a horn, that meant what I was holding in my hands was a unicorn skull. I paged through Mammals: An Illustrated Encyclopedia one more time, looking for a mammal with only one horn on its forehead, but my search yielded nothing. The one thing that came close was a rhinoceros, but judging by size and shape, the skull in my possession could not possibly be that of a rhinoceros.

			All I could do at that point was take some ice cubes from the freezer and pour myself an Old Crow on the rocks. The sun was headed down, which meant it was all right to have some whiskey. After my drink, I ate some canned asparagus. I love white asparagus. I finished the whole can and followed it with smoked oysters on white bread. Then I had another whiskey.

			For convenience’s sake, I decided to think that the original owner of the skull had been a unicorn. Things couldn’t move forward otherwise.

			I now own a unicorn skull.

			Oh, great. Why should all these strange things be happening to me? What had I done to deserve this? I was just one practical-minded, individualistic Calcutec. I had no particular ambition or desire. I had no family or friends or lovers. I was just a man with a simple plan: save as much money as I could so that when I retired as a Calcutec, I could spend my last years studying the cello or Greek and taking it easy. For what conceivable reason did I have to get involved with such inscrutable things as unicorns and sound pulling?

			When I was through with my second whiskey, I went to the bedroom, opened the phone book, and called the library. “Reference librarian, please.” Ten seconds later, the long-haired girl got on the phone.

			“Mammals: An Illustrated Encyclopedia,” I said.

			“Thanks for the ice cream,” she said.

			“You’re welcome,” I said. “But I’ve got one more favor to ask of you, okay?”

			“Favor?” she said. “It depends on the type of favor.”

			“I want you to look up stuff about unicorns for me.”

			“Unicorns?!”

			“Is that asking too much?”

			A short silence followed. I pictured her biting her lower lip.

			“What kind of stuff about unicorns?”

			“Everything,” I said.

			“You know, it’s four fifty in the afternoon, just a few minutes from closing, our busiest time of the day. I can’t do anything like that now. Why don’t you come first thing tomorrow morning? Then I can look up one-horned mammals or three-horned mammals or anything else you want.”

			“I’m in a big hurry,” I said. “And it’s really important.”

			“Hmm, how important?” she asked.

			“It’s connected with evolution,” I said.

			“Evolution?! You do know that evolution takes thousands of years, don’t you? What’s the rush? Can’t it wait one day?”

			“Well, some evolution takes thousands of years, but some only takes three hours. It’s too complicated for me to explain on the phone. Believe me, though, it’s very important. It has to do with a new human evolution.”

			“Like in 2001: A Space Odyssey?”

			“Exactly,” I said. I had seen 2001 on video several times.

			She kept silent for a while.

			“I’m not crazy,” I said. “I might be a little eccentric and pigheaded and overconfident, but I’m not crazy. Some people don’t like me, but nobody’s ever called me crazy.”

			“Hmm,” she said. “You do speak like a normal human being, and you don’t seem like a bad person. On top of which you bought me ice cream. Okay, let’s meet at a café near the library at six thirty tonight. I’ll give you any books I find. All right?”

			“Well, it’s not that simple,” I said. “Some things have come up and I can’t leave my apartment.”

			“By which you mean…” She clicked her fingernails against her front teeth. At least it sounded like that. “You’re telling me to bring the books to your place? I’m not sure I understand.”

			“It may amount to that,” I said. “Of course, I’m not telling you to bring the books. I’m asking you to bring them.”

			“Throwing yourself on my mercy?”

			“Exactly,” I said. “Really, all kinds of stuff has come up.”

			A long silence followed—not because of sound pulling, I knew, because I could hear “Annie Laurie” playing to announce the library’s closing time. No, she was just not saying anything.

			“I’ve been working here for five years, and in all that time I’ve never had one patron as demanding as you,” she said. “ ‘Bring the books to my house,’ he says, and I’ve only met him once! You’ve got a lot of nerve, don’t you think?”

			“You’re probably right,” I said. This was certainly not normal.

			“Well, then,” she said, “are you going to tell me the way to your place or not?”

			I happily told her the way.





8


			End of the World


			The Colonel


			“You’ll almost certainly never get your shadow back,” the Colonel said while sipping his coffee. Typical of most people accustomed to issuing orders for many years, he sat with a perfectly straight back and chin pulled in as he spoke. There was nothing arrogant or overbearing in his manner, however. All that remained from his long military life were his straight posture, his methodical habits, and his enormous storehouse of memories. He was an ideal neighbor for me: kind, quiet, and a skillful chess player.

			“Gatekeeper is right,” the Colonel went on. “Both theoretically and practically speaking, there is no possibility for you to take your shadow back. As long as you are in this town, you can’t have your shadow with you, and you will never be able to leave here. The town is what we in the military call a one-way tunnel: you can go in, but you can’t come out—at least not as long as the wall surrounds the town.”

			“I never thought I would lose my shadow forever,” I said. “I thought it was a temporary measure. No one told me otherwise.”

			“Nobody tells anybody anything in this town,” the Colonel said. “It operates according to its own rules. It doesn’t care what you know or don’t know, I’m sorry to say.”

			“So, what’s going to happen to my shadow?”

			“Nothing’s going to happen to it. It’ll just be there—until it dies. Have you seen it since it was taken from you?”

			“No, not once. I went to see it several times, but Gatekeeper wouldn’t let us meet. In the interest of law and order, he said.”

			“There’s nothing more you can do about it,” the old man said, shaking his head. “Keeping the shadow in his custody is Gatekeeper’s duty. It’s entirely his responsibility. I can’t do anything to help you. You’ve seen what a hard man he is, how threatening he can be. He never listens to anybody. You just have to be patient and wait for his mood to change. It’s all you can do.”

			“All right, I will,” I said. “But what is he so worried about?”

			The Colonel finished his coffee, set his cup back in the saucer, and pulled his handkerchief from his pocket, wiping his mouth. Like his clothing, the handkerchief was an old, heavily used piece of cloth, but it was clean and well cared for.

			“He’s worried that you and your shadow will get back together. If that happens, he has to do the whole thing over from scratch.”

			The Colonel returned his attention to the chessboard. The pieces and movements of this chess were different from the game I knew, which is why the old man almost always won.

			“My monkey is going to take your bishop. Are you okay with that?”

			“Go right ahead,” I said. Then I moved the wall and blocked the monkey’s escape route.

			The old man nodded a few times and stared hard again at the endgame. The outcome was all but certain: he’d almost certainly be winning, but instead of forging on to victory, he gave each move long, careful consideration. To him, a game was not for defeating the opponent but for challenging one’s own abilities.

			“Separating from your shadow, letting it die, can be painful,” he said, and advanced his knight diagonally, inserting a skillful block between my wall and my king. Now my king was essentially naked. Three moves to checkmate.

			“The pain is the same for everybody—me included. It’s one thing to have it stripped away from you while you’re still an innocent child and can let your shadow die before you’ve gotten to know it well, but once you’ve piled the years on, it can really get to you. I was sixty-five when it happened to me. By then you’ve got a lot of memories.”

			“How long does a shadow go on living after it’s stripped away?”

			“Each one is different,” the old man said. “Some are healthy, and some are not. But in this town, they can’t live very long. The area is not good for shadows. The winters are long and hard. Very few shadows see two springs.”

			I studied our positions on the chessboard for a while, but finally gave up.

			“You can still make five moves,” the Colonel said. “Don’t you think it’s worth a try? With five moves, you can count on your opponent making a mistake. You never know what can happen until it’s all over.”

			“Okay, I’ll give it a try,” I said.

			While I was thinking, the old man went to the window, drew the edge of the thick curtain back with one finger, and looked out through the narrow opening.

			“The next little while is going to be the toughest for you,” he said. “It’s like teeth. You’ve lost your old teeth but the new ones haven’t grown in yet. Do you see what I’m saying?”

			“That my shadow has been stripped off but still hasn’t died?”

			“That’s it,” the old man said with a nod. “I still remember the feeling. What used to be and what will be are not in balance yet. So you’re lost. When you have all your new teeth, though, you’ll forget about the old ones.”

			“You mean when my heart fades away?”

			The old man made no reply.

			“Sorry for all the questions,” I said. “But I know almost nothing about this town, and what I do know I find confusing. What mechanism keeps it moving? Why does it have such high walls? Why do the beasts go in and out every day? What are the old dreams? I can’t understand any of these things. And you’re the only one I can ask.”

			“Not even I know how everything works,” the old man said calmly. “Some things can’t be explained in words, and other things are not supposed to be explained. You don’t have anything to worry about, though. The town is very fair in a sense. It will show you, one by one, the things you need and the things you must know. All you will have to do is take them in, also one by one, with your own efforts. You see, this town is perfect. By ‘perfect’ I mean that it has everything. If you can’t fully understand that, then it has nothing. It’s a perfect nothingness. Keep that in mind. What others have taught you ends there, but what you teach yourself becomes a part of you. It will also save you. Open your eyes, open your ears, put your mind to work, and take in the meaning of what the town shows you. If you have a heart, as long as you have it, put it to work. That is all I can tell you.”



* * *



			—

			 				If the workers’ district where she lived was a place that had lost its former brilliance to the darkness, the government employees’ residential district that spread out to the southwest was a place that was losing more and more of its color in the parched light. Summer had melted away the lushness of spring, and the winter winds had finished the job. The white, two-story government-issue houses stretched in rows along the broad, gentle slope they called West Hill. Each residence had a central entry hall that rose above the rest of the building and was the only part used communally by the three families for which the structure had been originally designed. White paint covered everything: the cedar siding, the window frames, the narrow porches, the windows’ handrails. Everything on the West Hill slope was white as far as the eye could see, with every shade of white represented along the gravel road that circled the hill: unnaturally brilliant white where repainting had just been done, white that had been yellowed by long exposure to direct sunlight, an empty white from which wind and rain had snatched everything. No hedges surrounded the buildings. Instead, there were long, narrow flower beds beneath the small porches. A yard wide, they were very well tended, with crocuses and pansies and marigolds in the spring, and cosmos in the autumn. Blooming flowers made the buildings themselves look all the more dilapidated.

			In an earlier time, this district had probably been considered a more stylish neighborhood. I could see scattered traces of that past whenever I went out for a stroll along the hill. There must have been children playing in the streets, the sound of a piano here and there, the aroma of warm suppers drifting through the air. I felt such memories all around me as if I were passing through transparent doors.

			The primary residents of this government employees’ residential district had once been, of course, government employees—not high-ranking officials, but middle-level staff rather than those at the very bottom: people who strove to safeguard their unpretentious lives.

			But now such people were nowhere to be seen. Where they had disappeared to, I had no idea.

			Retired military men had come to replace them—men who, like empty cicada shells clinging to sunny walls, had cast off their shadows and come to live their own quiet lives on West Hill, where the strong seasonal winds blew through. They had almost nothing to safeguard anymore. Six to nine old soldiers lived in each of the government residences.

			Gatekeeper had assigned me a room in one such residence. One colonel, two majors, two lieutenants, and one sergeant lived there. The Sergeant cooked and did chores, and the Colonel made decisions. As in the army. All these lonely old men had been kept so busy preparing for, fighting, and cleaning up after wars and revolutions and counterrevolutions that they had lost the chance to have families.

			They would wake early in the morning, have a quick breakfast, and, without being ordered to do so by anyone, would habitually set about their various jobs. One would use a spatula-shaped tool to scrape old, peeling paint from the building. One would pull weeds from the front yard. One took on the job of repairing furniture. And one would pull a handcart to the bottom of the hill to pick up food rations. Once they had finished their morning jobs, the old men would get together in a sunny spot and share stories of the old days.



* * *



			—

			I had been assigned an east-facing room on the second floor. The view was not very good, blocked as it was by the hill in the foreground, but to one side you could see the river and the clock tower. The room seemed not to have been lived in for a long time. The walls had dark stains everywhere, and white dust lay thick on the windowsill. There was an old bed, a small table, and two chairs. A thick, moldy-smelling curtain hung on the window. The wooden flooring was badly worn and creaked whenever I walked on it.

			The Colonel would come from his room next to mine each morning, and we would have breakfast together. We would spend the afternoons playing chess in my darkly curtained room. It was the only way I had of killing time on bright afternoons.



* * *



			—

			“It must be hard for a young fellow like you to have to spend nice days like this shut up in a dark room with the curtains drawn,” the Colonel would say.

			“Yes, it is.”

			“Of course, it’s good for me getting a chess partner. The other fellows here have almost no interest in games. I’m the only one who still wants to play chess.”

			“Why did you let your shadow go?”

			The old man stared at his fingers in the rays of sunlight that seeped past the edge of the curtain before he returned from the window to the table and sat down across from me.

			“Good question,” he said. “Probably because I had spent so many years protecting the town. I guess I felt that the meaning of my life would be lost if I left the town. Not that it matters anymore, though.”

			“Do you regret having let your shadow go?”

			“No, I don’t,” he said, shaking his head. “I’ve never once regretted anything. Because I’ve never had anything worth regretting.”

			I crushed his monkey with my wall and opened a space for my king to maneuver.

			“Good move,” the old man said. “You’ve blocked my horn with your wall and freed up your king. But at the same time, you’ve also given my knight a chance to move.”

			While he gave careful thought to his next move, I boiled water and made a new pot of coffee. Lots of afternoons will go by like this, I thought. I have almost nothing to choose from in this town surrounded by its high walls.





9


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Appetite, Disappointment, Leningrad


			While waiting for her, I made a simple supper. I mashed a few umeboshi pickled plums in a mortar bowl and mixed up a tangy salad dressing, deep-fried several clusters of sardines, spongy fried tofu, and mountain yams, and simmered a beef-and-celery stew. They came out pretty well. With time to spare, I drank a can of beer while soaking some myoga ginger root in soy sauce and coating green beans with ground sesame paste. Then I stretched out in bed and listened to old records with my eyes on the ceiling.

			It was after seven o’clock and dark outside, but still there was no sign of her. Maybe she had changed her mind about coming to my place. I couldn’t blame her. Any way you looked at it, it made more sense for her not to come.

			The doorbell rang when I was hunting for another record. I looked out through the fisheye lens to find the reference librarian standing in the corridor with books in her arms. I opened the door a crack with the chain on and asked her if there was anyone else out there.

			“No, no one,” she said.

			I unhooked the chain and let her in. As soon as she slipped inside, I closed the door and locked it.

			“Oh, it smells so great in here!” she said, sniffing. “Can I look in the kitchen?”

			“Please do,” I said, “but did you happen to notice anyone strange near the front entrance—somebody doing road work or sitting in a parked car?”

			“Not at all,” she said, plopping the two library books on the kitchen table and lifting the tops of the pots on the range one after another. “Did you make all these?”

			“Sure did,” I said. “If you’re hungry, I’ll feed you dinner. I’m not a great cook, though.”

			“Don’t be silly,” she said. “I love stuff like this.”

			I lined up the food on the table and watched in amazement as she proceeded to finish off every mouthful. Such an enthusiastic eater made cooking worthwhile. Whiskey was enough for me, but to go with it I singed a thick piece of fried tofu in a high flame and topped it with grated ginger. She just kept eating without saying a word. I offered her some whiskey, but she said she didn’t want any.

			“Will you let me have some of your fried tofu, though?”

			I pushed the uneaten half of my fried tofu over to her and continued drinking my whiskey.

			“If you like, I’ve got some white rice and umeboshi pickles,” I said. “And I could easily make you some miso soup.”

			“That would be just heaven,” she said.

			I made a simple fish broth with bonito flakes, made miso soup with wakame seaweed and green onions, and served it with white rice and umeboshi pickles, all of which she finished in the wink of an eye. When the table was clear of everything but umeboshi pits, she let out a great sigh as if finally satisfied.

			“Thanks,” she said, “that was delicious.”

			This was the first time in my life I had ever seen such a slim, beautiful girl put away such a huge meal. It was a spectacular show of eating, after which I found myself staring at her in a daze, half in admiration and half in horror.

			“Do you always eat so much?” I couldn’t help asking.

			“Yes, all the time,” she said with perfect detachment. “This was normal for me.”

			“But you’re not the least bit overweight,” I said.

			“It’s called gastric dilation,” she said. “I never get fat no matter how much I eat.”

			“You must have quite a food bill,” I ventured. All by herself she had polished off two dinners and my next day’s lunch.

			“Yes, it’s huge,” she said. “Most of my salary disappears into my food bill, I’m pretty sure.”

			I offered her some whiskey again, but she said she’d rather have a beer. I took one out of the refrigerator and just for the hell of it threw two handfuls of frankfurters into a fry pan and got them sizzling. No way, I figured, but aside from the two I ate, she finished them all. What a ferocious appetite she had, like a heavy machine gun mowing down a little shed. A week’s worth of groceries had disappeared before my eyes. I had been planning to make myself a tasty dish of wieners and sauerkraut.



* * *



			—

			I mixed some wakame seaweed and tuna into a ready-made potato salad, which she polished off with a second beer.

			“I can’t tell you how happy this makes me,” she said. I had had a whiskey and hardly any food. Fascinated to watch her eat, I had felt no hunger myself.

			“If you like, I can serve you some chocolate cake for dessert,” I hazarded. She ate that, too, of course. Just looking at her, I began to feel as if what food I had inside me was pushing up to the base of my throat. I do like to cook, but I am, if anything, a small eater.

			That must have been the reason I couldn’t get an erection. It was my first failure since the year of the Tokyo Olympics.

			“Don’t let it bother you,” she said, “it’s no big deal.” After dessert, we had drunk more whiskey and beer while listening to two or three records, and then had crawled into bed. I had slept with plenty of girls over the years, but she was my first librarian. That was probably why I had treated her to dinner. Finally, though, as I just said, I couldn’t get an erection. The thought of all the food that had been taken into—and was now in the process of being digested in—that stomach of hers was enough to prevent the energy from going down to where I needed it.

			Pressing her naked body against me, she ran her middle finger a few inches up and down the center of my chest. “This happens to everybody once in a while, so don’t let it bother you too much.”

			The more she tried to comfort me, though, the more the sheer fact of my failure to achieve erection came to weigh on me with a heightened sense of its own glaring reality. I recalled a passage I had read long before to the effect that the penis was a more aesthetically appealing object when not erect than when erect, but this didn’t do much to cheer me, either.

			“When’s the last time you slept with a girl?” she asked.

			I opened my memory box and fumbled around inside there for a while. “Two weeks ago,” I said. “I’m pretty sure.”

			“And it worked okay?”

			“Of course,” I said. Someone seemed to be asking me about my sex life every day lately. Or maybe it was just the latest fashion.

			“Who was it with?”

			“A call girl. I called her.”

			“And didn’t you feel a little…guilty at the time, sleeping with a woman like that?”

			“No, not especially, I don’t think I did.”

			“And have you masturbated since then?”

			“No, I have not,” I said. I had been so busy with work since then that I hadn’t found the time to pick up an important jacket I had left at the cleaners, let alone the time to masturbate. When I said that to her, she gave me one curt nod and said, “That’s it!” as if she had the answer.

			“You mean it’s because I haven’t masturbated?”

			“No, silly! Because of your work. You’ve been so busy, right?”

			“It’s true. The day before yesterday I couldn’t sleep for twenty-six straight hours.”

			“What kind of work do you do?”

			“Computer-connected stuff,” I said. That’s my standard answer when anyone asks me what I do for a living. It’s not entirely false, and since most people don’t have a very deep professional knowledge of the computer business, I can usually get by without facing any more probing questions.

			“I’m sure that’s it. You were stressed out from long hours of brain work, and so you were temporarily disabled. It happens all the time.”

			“Hmm,” I said. She might have been right. I was tired and had developed a case of nerves following two days packed full of abnormal experiences, on top of which I had been subjected at close range to that appalling, even violent, display of sheer unbridled appetite, and perhaps that had been enough to render me momentarily impotent. Such a thing could happen.

			“Listen, put your ear on my stomach,” she said, pushing the blanket down to her ankles.

			She had a sleek, beautiful body: slim, without an ounce of extra fat, and with nice-sized breasts. I did as she said and pressed one ear against the area between her breasts and navel. Her belly was like a flat piece of drawing paper, not the least bit swollen after having crammed that much food into it, which was nothing short of a miracle, like the bottomless pockets of Harpo Marx’s coat. Her skin was thin, soft and warm.

			“Can you hear anything?” she asked.

			I held my breath and listened, but other than the slow beating of her heart, I couldn’t hear a thing. I might as well have been lying in a quiet forest listening for the distant chop of a woodsman’s axe.

			“Nope, nothing,” I said.

			“You can’t hear the sound of my stomach digesting food?”

			“I don’t know for sure, but I don’t think that makes a lot of noise. It’s just stomach acids dissolving food. There might be some peristaltic movements, but I don’t think it’s supposed to produce much sound.”

			“Still, I have a really clear sense that my stomach is hard at work right now. Listen more closely.”

			I stayed in position with my ear down, concentrating, my eyes catching a blurry view of her lower abdomen and the swell of her pubic hair, but I could hear nothing that suggested stomach activity. There was only the regularly spaced beating of her heart. I was reminded of a scene in the World War II submarine movie The Enemy Below. Beneath the spot where I was pressing my ear, her giant stomach was performing its digestive activities in silence like the U-boat commanded by Curt Jurgens.

			I gave up and raised myself from her body, leaning on the pillow and putting my arm around her shoulders. I caught the scent of her hair.

			“Do you have any tonic water?” she asked.

			“In the fridge,” I said.

			“I’d like a vodka and tonic. Do you mind?”

			“Not at all,” I said.

			“Do you want to drink something, too?”

			“The same as you,” I said.

			She got up naked, made two vodka and tonics in the kitchen, and brought them back to bed.

			“How old are you?” she asked.

			“Thirty-five,” I said. “I got divorced a long time ago and am single now. No kids. No girlfriend.”

			“I’m twenty-nine,” she said. “Another five months and I’ll be thirty.”

			I took another look at her. She really did not show her age.

			“I look young, but I really am twenty-nine,” she said. “But you, aren’t you really a baseball player or something?”

			I almost spilled my vodka and tonic on my chest when I heard that.

			“No way,” I said. “I haven’t touched a baseball in fifteen years. Whatever gave you that idea?”

			“I think I’ve seen you on television. Baseball and the news are all I watch on TV. So, the news, then?”

			“No, I’ve never been on the news.”

			“Commercials?”

			“Absolutely not,” I said.

			“So maybe it was somebody who looks just like you. You really don’t look like a computer guy. First, you’re talking about evolution and unicorns, and the next thing I know you’ve got a switchblade in your pocket.”

			She pointed at my pants on the floor. Sure enough, my knife was sticking out of the back pocket.

			“I do biological data processing. It’s a kind of biotechnology, and since it involves corporate profits, I have to be careful. Data piracy between corporations has become a dangerous game lately.”

			“Hmm,” she said and gave me a look that signaled she didn’t quite believe me. “Oh, well, never mind. Let’s talk about unicorns. That’s what you called me for to begin with, wasn’t it?”

			I nodded and set our empty glasses on the floor. She took hold of the two library volumes she had set near the head of the bed: Bertrand Cooper’s The Archaeology of Animals and Borges’s The Book of Imaginary Beings.

			“I skimmed these before I came over,” she said. “To put it simply, this one”—she lifted The Book of Imaginary Beings—“treats the unicorn as a product of the imagination like dragons and mermaids, while this one”—she lifted The Archaeology of Animals—“takes a more evidence-based approach and adopts the position that unicorns might well have existed. Unfortunately, though, neither devotes a lot of space to unicorns—shockingly little compared with the coverage of, say, dragons or elves.

			I would guess that might be because the existence of unicorns is so inconspicuous. Sorry, but this is all I could find in our library.”

			“That’s plenty,” I said, “as long as I have the gist. Thanks.”

			She handed me the two volumes.

			“If you wouldn’t mind,” I said, “could I ask you to do a simple read-through for me, touching on the main points? Hearing it, I can get a better sense of the outline.”

			She nodded, picked up The Book of Imaginary Beings first, and opened to the first page.

			“ ‘We do not know what the dragon means, just as we do not know the meaning of the universe,’ ” she began reading aloud. “This is from the book’s preface, okay?”

			“Sure, that’s fine,” I said.

			Then she opened to a page way in the back where she had inserted a bookmark and summarized a bit in her own words.

			“The first thing you have to realize is that there are two kinds of unicorn: the Western-version unicorn that got its start in Greece, and the Chinese unicorn. The two are completely different in shape and appearance and conception. For example, the Greeks described their unicorn like this:


				The trunk of a unicorn resembles that of a horse, the head that of a stag, the legs those of an elephant, and the tail is close to a wild boar’s. Its cry is a deep bellow, and its one black horn protrudes three feet from the center of its forehead. Capturing this animal alive is said to be impossible.

				“By contrast, the Chinese unicorn is like this:

				This has the body of a deer, the tail of a cow, and the hooves of a horse. The short horn protruding from its forehead is composed of flesh. The hide of its back has a mix of five colors, while the belly is brown or yellow.



			“They’re so different, aren’t they?”

			“Yeah, really,” I said.

			“And it’s not just a matter of shape and appearance. Eastern and Western unicorns are totally different in temperament and significance. The way Westerners see it, the unicorn is tremendously fierce and aggressive. That three-foot horn is something to be scared of. Leonardo da Vinci says there’s only one way to capture a unicorn: you take advantage of its sex drive. If you put a young girl in its presence, its lust is so strong it forgets to attack and just lays its head in her lap and can be captured. You know what the horn represents, don’t you?”

			“Sure, I think so.”

			“By contrast, the Chinese unicorn, the qilin, is a sacred animal that brings good luck. It ranks right up there with the dragon, the phoenix, and the tortoise as one of the Four Auspicious Beasts, at the very top of the 365 Earthly Animals. It has a gentle temperament, and when it walks it’s careful not to step on even the smallest creature. It never eats living grass, only hay. It lives for a thousand years, and the appearance of a unicorn signifies the coming birth of a holy sage. For example, when Confucius was conceived, his mother saw a unicorn. Here’s another passage:


				Seventy years later, when certain hunters killed a qilin, they found that, still attached to its single horn, was the ribbon that the mother of Confucius had tied there. Confucius went to see the unicorn and shed tears because he sensed what the death of such an immaculate, mysterious beast foretold, and because his past was there in the ribbon.



			“Isn’t that fascinating? Even as late as the thirteenth century, a unicorn appears in Chinese history. When Genghis Khan was planning to invade India, the advanced expeditionary force he sent in encountered a unicorn in the middle of the desert. This particular unicorn had a head like a horse’s, a horn on its forehead, and green fur on its body. It looked like a deer but it spoke like a human being. And what it said was, ‘The time has come for your master to return to his own country.’


				Genghis Khan consulted with one of his Chinese ministers, who explained to him that the animal was a kind of qilin known as a jiao-rui, or “Horned Wonder.” He said, “Your great forces have waged war in the West for four hundred years, but Heaven abhors bloodletting and has sent you a warning through the Horned Wonder. Please save the Empire for Heaven’s sake. The Golden Mean gives boundless joy,” whereupon the emperor abandoned his war plans.



			“The East and the West both have what they call unicorns, but look how different they are! The same thing that stands for peace and tranquility in the East symbolizes aggression and lust in the West. Still, East and West are the same in having an imaginary animal they were able to give different meanings to because they’re imaginary.”

			“Are there really no one-horned animals, then?”

			“Well, there is a kind of dolphin called a narwhal, but what it has is not properly speaking a horn but a tooth in the upper jaw—a tusk—that grows out of the top of its head. The tusk can be nine or ten feet long, very straight, and has a spiral pattern around it that makes it look like a big drill bit. But it’s a special kind of aquatic animal that probably wasn’t seen by many people in the Middle Ages. When it comes to mammals, there do seem to have been some single-horned ones among the many animals that appeared during the Miocene epoch and went extinct one after another. For example—”

			And here she picked up The Archaeology of Animals and opened it about two-thirds of the way through.

			“These are two ruminants that are thought to have existed in the North American continent during the Miocene—about twenty million years ago. The one on the right is Synthetoceras, and the one on the left is Cranioceras. Both had three horns, but people are sure the one in the middle was independent.”

			I took the book from her and looked at the illustrations. Synthetoceras looked like a cross between a small horse and a deer with two horns like a cow’s on its forehead and a long, Y-shaped split horn on the end of its nose. Cranioceras was a bit more round-faced than Synthetoceras. Its forehead carried two horns like a deer’s and, separate from those, a long, sharp horn that protruded backward and curved upward. Both animals had something grotesque about them.

			“But just about all of these animals with an odd number of horns ceased to exist,” she said, taking the book back from me. “Speaking just of mammals, those with a single horn or an odd number of horns were extremely rare, a kind of deformation in terms of evolution. In other words, they were evolutionary orphans. Even if we don’t limit ourselves to mammals, say dinosaurs, there was one gigantic dinosaur with three horns, Triceratops, but it was a total exception. Which is to say, horns are very concentrated weapons, so there’s no need for three. Think how a fork works. If you’ve got three horns, there’s that much more resistance and it’s that much harder to penetrate something. Plus, if one of your horns hits something hard, the possibility arises from a mechanical point of view that none of the three is going to be able to pierce your enemy’s body.

			“Also, in case you’re facing multiple enemies at once, it would be hard with three horns to thrust your horns into somebody, pull them out again, and go after the next somebody.”

			“It takes longer because of the added resistance,” I said.

			“Exactly,” she said, poking three fingers against my chest. “This is the drawback of multiple horns. Proposition no. 1: One or two horns are more functional than three or more. Next, the drawback of one horn. No, before I get to that, it might be better for me to provide a simple explanation of the necessity of two horns. The first advantage of two horns is that an animal’s body is formed with bilateral symmetry, you see. All animals define their patterns of movement by balancing themselves from side to side, which is to say by dividing their strength into two portions. The nose has two openings, and even the mouth has bilateral symmetry so that it functions essentially in two separate parts. There is only one navel, but it is a kind of devolutionary organ, after all.”

			“And the penis?” I asked.

			“The penis and the vagina are a pair, like a hot dog and a bun.”

			“Of course,” I said. Of course.

			“Most important are the eyes. They function as the control tower in both offense and defense, which is why it is most logical for the horns to sprout in close proximity to them. The rhinoceros is a good example. The rhinoceros is, in principle, a one-horned animal—literally, a unicorn, but it’s terribly nearsighted. That comes from its having only one horn. That makes it a kind of cripple. But the fact that the rhinoceros has survived in spite of such a weakness is because it’s a herbivore and is covered with thick armor plating. That’s why it has almost no further need of defenses. In that sense, the rhinoceros bears a strong resemblance in body type to the three-horned dinosaur Triceratops. The unicorn, though, as we see it in pictures, most definitely does not belong to that line. It’s not covered in armor plate and is in fact very…very…”

			“Defenseless,” I said.

			“That’s it. When it comes to defenses, it’s like a deer. And if you added nearsightedness to the mix, that would be fatal. Even if its senses of smell and hearing were highly developed, it wouldn’t be able to do a thing if its escape route were blocked. So, attacking a unicorn would be like shooting a grounded duck with a high-performance shotgun.—Oh, and one more drawback to having only one horn would be that a broken horn would be fatal. Finally, it would be like trying to cross the Sahara Desert without a spare tire. See what I mean?”

			“I do,” I said.

			“One more drawback to having a single horn is the difficulty of exerting any strength with it. That’s easy to understand if you compare your back teeth with your front teeth. It’s a lot easier to bite down hard with the back teeth, right? This is the problem I was talking about before of the balance of power. If the tip is heavy and force is exerted there, the greater the force, the more stable the whole. So, what do you say? Does that make clear what a defective product a unicorn is?”

			“Absolutely,” I said. “You’re good at these explanations.”

			She smiled and ran her fingers over my chest. “But that’s not everything,” she said. “If you think about it theoretically, there’s one factor that might have enabled the unicorn to escape extinction and continue to exist. This is the most important point. Can you guess what it is?”

			I folded my hands on my chest and thought about it a minute or two. There was only one conclusion.

			“No natural enemies,” I said.

			“Bull’s-eye!” she said, and kissed me on the lips.

			“All right,” she continued, “now give me a situation in which the unicorn would have no natural enemies.”

			“First, it would have to be in a place cut off from the rest of the world,” I said. “A place other animals couldn’t get into. Like in Arthur Conan Doyle’s Lost World—someplace way up high or way down low or walled in by a ring of high mountains.”

			“Wonderful!” she said, and flicked her index finger at my heart. “Actually, there’s a record of a unicorn skull’s having been discovered in just such a place.”

			I found myself gulping in amazement. Before I had realized it, I was approaching the heart of the matter.

			“It was found on the Russian front in 1917. September 1917.”

			“That would be before the October Revolution,” I said. “World War I. The Kerensky Cabinet. Just before the Bolsheviks took power.”

			“A Russian soldier found it when he was digging a trench on the Ukrainian front. He thought it was just a cow’s skull or a big deer’s and he tossed it aside. It could have been lost to history right then and there, but as it happened, the captain of the unit was a graduate student in biology at Petrograd Imperial University. He brought the skull back to the barracks and went over it in detail. The first thing he discovered was that it came from an animal he had never seen before. He immediately got in touch with the chairman of his department and waited for him to dispatch a research team, but they never showed up. Of course, Russia was in an upheaval at the time, and strikes were breaking out all over the place, so it was hard enough to send provisions or ammunition or medical supplies to the front, let alone an academic research team. And even supposing they had made it, I doubt they would have had time for an on-site investigation. The Russian Army was suffering defeat after defeat and the front line was being pushed further and further back until that area soon became occupied by the Germans.”

			“So, what happened to the captain?”

			“He was hanged from a telegraph pole that November. The telegraph lines were strung on a row of poles all the way from Ukraine to Moscow, and most of the officers who had been members of the bourgeoisie were strung up on them. The captain himself was just a biology graduate student without a trace of politics in him.”

			I pictured an officer hanging on each pole in a line stretching across the steppes.

			“Just before the Bolsheviks took charge of the army, though, the young officer entrusted the skull to a wounded soldier who was due to be transferred to the rear, promising to pay him a handsome reward if he would deliver it to the Petrograd professor. The soldier was not able to be discharged from the hospital and to visit Petrograd Imperial University with the skull in hand, however, until the following February, by which time the university was on temporary lockdown. The students were swept up in the revolution around the clock, most of the professors had been expelled from campus or fled for their lives, and keeping a university open was out of the question. Resigning himself to receiving his reward sometime in the future, the soldier left the box containing the skull with his brother-in-law, a Petrograd harness maker, and went back to his home village some three hundred kilometers distant. For some unknown reason, however, the soldier was never able to revisit Petrograd, and the skull ended up sleeping, forgotten, in the harness maker’s storehouse for years.

			“It was 1935 before the skull saw the light of day again. By then, Petrograd had become Leningrad, Lenin himself was dead, Trotsky had been exiled, and Stalin had a firm grip on power. Nobody in Leningrad rode on horses anymore, so the harness maker sold half his business and converted the rest to a little shop selling hockey gear.”

			“Hockey gear?” I asked. “Was hockey popular in the 1930s Soviet Union?”

			“I have no idea,” she said. “I’m just telling you what it says here. But Leningrad was a rather modern city even after the revolution, so I wouldn’t be surprised if everybody played hockey.”

			“I wonder,” I said.

			“Anyhow, while he was reorganizing his storehouse, the harness maker found and opened the box his brother-in-law had left there in 1918. On top, he found the letter addressed to the Petrograd professor requesting that he pay so-and-so a suitable reward for delivering the skull. The harness maker of course brought the box to the university—which by then was called Leningrad State University—and asked to see the professor. As it turned out, though, the professor was a Jew who had been sent to Siberia when Trotsky fell. All this meant to the harness maker was that he had lost his chance for a reward and was now stuck with some ridiculous animal skull that was never going to net him a penny even if he guarded it with his life. So he found himself another biology professor, explained the circumstances, and left the skull with the university on receipt of a ‘reward’ that amounted to nothing more than a few sparrow tears, as the saying goes.”

			“Still, the skull finally found its way to the university after eighteen years,” I said.

			“Right, so the professor studied the skull from every angle, and he reached the same conclusion the young captain had reached eighteen years earlier—namely, that the skull failed to match that of any extant animal or that of any animal that was ever thought to have existed. It was closest in form to the skull of a deer and had a jaw shape that suggested a ruminant ungulate, but the face appeared to be somewhat fuller than that of a deer. What most clearly distinguished it from a deer, finally, was the single horn it had in the middle of its forehead. It was, in other words, a unicorn.”

			“You’re saying it actually had a horn attached, this skull?”

			“Yes, that’s right, it had a horn. Or at least the remnants of a horn. The horn itself had been snapped off at the three-centimeter mark, but judging from what was left, it had been about twenty centimeters in length, like the straight antler of an antelope. Or that’s what it says here. The diameter of the base was about…uh…two centimeters.”

			“Two centimeters,” I repeated. The indentation in the skull I had received from the old man was exactly two centimeters in diameter.

			“So then Professor Perov—that was the name of the professor—headed off to Ukraine with several assistants and graduate students and spent a month doing field work where the young captain’s unit had dug its trench. Unfortunately, they were not able to unearth the same kind of skull, but they did manage to learn many interesting facts about the area, which is called the Voltafil Plateau. The western part of Ukraine has a lot of flat plains, but the Voltafil Plateau is somewhat elevated, which makes it one of the few natural military vantage points in the area. The German-Austrian and Russian armies engaged in repeated hand-to-hand clashes over every meter they won or lost there during the First World War. And during the Second World War, there was so much shelling that the shape of the plateau was permanently altered. Of course, that came later, but what most interested Professor Perov about the Voltafil Plateau at the time was that the various kinds of animal bones they unearthed there displayed distribution patterns that were dramatically different from those of other animals in the region. This led him to hypothesize that the plateau had had a very different shape in ancient times, that the area had been walled in by a ring of high mountains, inside of which unique life systems thrived—in other words, your Lost World.”

			“A ring of high mountains in Ukraine?”

			“Yes, a round plateau surrounded by steep walls. Over tens of thousands of years, the walls would have crumbled and you’d end up with an ordinary hill. But meanwhile, living quietly inside without natural predators would have been the lost child of evolution, the unicorn. The plateau had abundant springs and fertile soil, which supported the professor’s hypothesis. So he submitted a study to the Soviet Academy of Sciences titled An Inquiry into Organisms of the Voltafil Plateau, in which he cited, in addition to the unicorn skull, sixty-three pieces of zoological, botanical, and geological evidence. That was in August of 1936.”

			“Let me guess: it wasn’t well received.”

			“No, I think it was practically ignored. The timing was really bad, too. Just at that point, Moscow State University and Leningrad State University were feuding over which of them was going to take control of the Science Academy, and things were looking bad for the Leningrad side, which received a thorough drubbing for its ‘nondialectical’ research. Still, no one could ignore the existence of the unicorn skull. It was not a hypothesis, after all, but an unmistakably real physical object. So, a team of specialists spent an entire year examining it, at the end of which they had to release their conclusion: it was no man-made creation but the genuine skull of a single-horned animal. Finally, a Science Academy committee sent it back to Professor Perov at Leningrad State University on the grounds that it was nothing but a deformed deer skull of no relevance to evolution and thus not worth conducting research on. And that was the end of that.

			“Thereafter Professor Perov continued to wait for a change in wind direction when the fruits of his research would finally be recognized, but that hope evaporated with the outbreak of war between Germany and the Soviet Union in 1940, and the professor was still living with his disappointment when he died in 1943. The skull itself went missing during the Siege of Leningrad. What with the German shelling and the Soviet bombing, the entire university campus was reduced to rubble, so the fate of one animal skull was the last thing on anyone’s mind. This way the one and only piece of evidence for the existence of unicorns simply vanished.”

			“So, then, there’s nothing definite that survives.”

			“No, aside from the photographs.”

			“Photographs?” I asked.

			“Yes, photographs of the skull. Professor Perov took close to one hundred photos of it. Some of them escaped destruction and are still preserved in the Leningrad State University materials collection. Look, here they are.”

			I took the book from her and glanced at the photos she was pointing at. They were rather blurry, but they captured the overall shape of the skull, which lay on a table that was covered by a white cloth and had a wristwatch lying next to it for size comparison. A white circle showing the location of the horn had been drawn on the middle of the forehead. The skull was unmistakably the same type as the one I had been given by the old man. The two skulls were identical in every respect except for the remnant of the horn’s base on one. I glanced over at the skull on top of the TV. With the T-shirt draped over it, it looked like a sleeping cat from this distance. I wondered whether or not I should tell her I had the skull but decided in the end not to. A secret is a secret because almost nobody knows it.

			“Do you think the skull was really destroyed in the war?” I asked her.

			“Hmm, I wonder,” she said, touching her bangs with her little finger. “The book says the battle for Leningrad crushed block after block like a steamroller, and the university neighborhood got the worst of it, so most likely the skull was destroyed, too. Of course, it’s conceivable that Professor Perov took the skull away and hid it somewhere before the fighting began, or the German army carried it off as booty, but the fact is that no one human being has seen it since then.”

			I looked at the photos again, snapped the book shut, and set it down by the head of the bed. I spent a few minutes wondering if the skull in my possession was in fact the same one that had been kept at Leningrad State University or was a different unicorn skull that had been dug up someplace else. The simplest thing would be to ask the old man directly: where had he obtained it, and why had he given it to me? I would be seeing him again in any case when I brought him the shuffled data. I could ask him then. There was no point in worrying about it meanwhile.

			Eyes on the ceiling, I let my mind wander while she rested her head on my chest and pressed up against me. I put my arm around her and drew her closer. I was feeling a little easier now that the unicorn problem had resolved itself for the moment, but I didn’t sense any improvement on the penile front. She didn’t seem to care whether I was erect or not, though, as she softly ran her finger over my stomach, drawing indecipherable diagrams.





10


			End of the World


			The Wall


			I made my way down to the gatehouse one cloudy afternoon to find my shadow helping Gatekeeper repair a handcart. They had brought the cart out to the middle of the open square by the gate and were replacing worn-out floorboards and side planks with new wood. Gatekeeper skillfully planed the new planks and my shadow hammered them in place. He seemed little changed from when I had left him here. Physically, at least, he looked quite fine, but there was something awkward about his movements, and the wrinkles of a frown had formed around his eyes.

			The two stopped working and looked up as I neared them.

			“Can I do something for you?” Gatekeeper asked.

			“Yes, I have to talk with you,” I said.

			“We’ll be done with this part soon. Why don’t you wait for me inside?” he said, looking down at the partially smoothed plank. My shadow glanced at me again but returned to his work. I could tell he was furious with me.

			I entered the gatehouse and sat by the table, waiting for Gatekeeper. The tabletop was a mess as usual. He straightened things up there only when he was sharpening his blades. Dirty dishes and cups, his pipe, coffee grounds, and wood shavings were heaped all over it. The only things neatly arranged in the gatehouse were the blades lined up on the wall shelf.

			Gatekeeper kept me waiting for a long time. I rested an arm on my chair back and killed time letting my eyes wander over the ceiling. In this town there was more than enough time to kill. People naturally found their own individual ways of doing so.

			The sounds of planing and hammering went on and on outside.

			Eventually the door opened, but the one who came in was not Gatekeeper but my shadow.

			“I don’t have much time for talk,” he said as he passed me by. “I’m just here to get nails from the storeroom.”

			He opened the door in back and took a box of nails out of the storeroom on the right.

			“Now listen to me,” he said, checking on the length of the nails in the box. “You’re going to make a map of this town. Not based on what anybody tells you, but on what you see with your own eyes and walk to on your own feet. You have to be sure of everything and draw in pictures of everything you notice, no matter how small.”

			“That’s going to take time,” I said.

			“That’s all right, as long as you give it to me by the end of autumn,” he said rapidly. “And I want details in writing: the layout of the wall, the Eastern Forest, the river’s entrance and exit. That’s all. Got it?”

			With that, my shadow opened the door and went out without looking at me. I went over what he had said: the layout of the wall, the Eastern Forest, the river’s entrance and exit. He was right: making a map was not a bad idea. It would give me a grasp of the town’s overall layout and an efficient way to use my spare time. Best of all, this meant that my shadow still trusted me.

			Gatekeeper came in a few minutes later. He toweled off the sweat and wiped the dirt from his hands. Then he dropped down hard in the chair across from me.

			“So, what did you want to talk about?”

			“I came to see my shadow,” I said.

			He nodded a few times. Then he stuffed his pipe with tobacco and struck a match and lit it.

			“I can’t let you do that,” he said. “Sorry, but it’s too soon. Your shadow’s still strong at this time of year. Wait’ll the days get shorter. Don’t worry, I’ll make it happen.”

			He snapped his matchstick in two and tossed it into a dish on the table.

			“You’ll be better off this way, too. If you form some half-baked attachment to your shadow now, it’ll just be trouble later on. I’ve seen it happen lots of times. Trust me, just hold off a little longer.”

			I gave him a silent nod. He was not about to listen to anything I had to say. In any case, I had managed to speak with my shadow. Now all I could do was wait patiently for Gatekeeper to give us another opportunity.

			Gatekeeper left his chair, went to the sink, and started drinking from a big ceramic cup, which he filled with water again and again.

			“How’s your work going?” he asked.

			“All right. I’m getting the hang of it,” I said.

			“Good. Doing a good job—that’s the best thing. People who can’t do good work start having funny ideas.”

			Outside, my shadow was still pounding nails.

			“How about taking a little walk with me?” Gatekeeper asked. “I’ll show you something interesting.”

			I followed him out of the gatehouse. In the square, my shadow was standing in the handcart, attaching the last side plank. Except for its supports and wheels, the cart was brand new.

			Gatekeeper led me across the square to the base of the watchtower in the wall. It was a hot, humid, overcast afternoon. Moving in from the west, black clouds hung high in the sky above the wall, threatening a downpour any moment. Gatekeeper’s sweat-soaked shirt clung to his massive body, giving off a horrid stink.

			“This is the wall,” he said, patting it as one might pat a horse. “It’s seven meters tall and circles the whole town. Only birds can get over it. This gate is the only way in or out. There was an eastern gate, too, in the old days, but that’s been sealed up. As you can see, the wall is made of bricks, but these are no ordinary bricks. Nobody and nothing can damage or destroy them—not cannons nor earthquakes nor windstorms.”

			As he spoke, Gatekeeper picked up a scrap of wood from the ground and started whittling away at it. His knife sliced through the wood with ease, and the scrap was soon a perfect little wedge.

			“Now watch this,” he said. “There’s no mortar between the bricks. No need. The bricks fit together perfectly; you couldn’t slip a hair between them.”

			Gatekeeper ran the sharp point of his wedge along the seam between two bricks to show how nothing could fit in there. Then he tossed the wedge down and scraped the surface of a brick with the point of his knife. It made an awful scratching sound but left no mark. He checked the blade before folding the knife and putting it back in his pocket.

			“Nobody can make a mark on the wall. Or climb it. Because the wall is perfect. Keep that in mind. Nobody can get out of here. So don’t have stupid thoughts.”

			He rested his huge hand on my back.

			“I know how hard this is for you. But everybody has to go through it. You just have to bear it. You’ll be saved afterwards. Then all your pain and suffering will be gone. It’ll all disappear. A split second of feeling is not worth a thing. Trust me, you need to forget about your shadow. This is End of the World. The world ends here, and there’s nowhere else to go. That includes you: you can’t go anywhere.”

			He patted me on the back again.



* * *



			—

			On my way home, I stopped in the middle of the Old Bridge and leaned against the railing to watch the river and think about what Gatekeeper had said.

			End of the World.

			But why had it been necessary for me to abandon my old world and come here to End of the World? For the life of me, I couldn’t recall what had led to it or what the meaning or purpose might have been. Something, some force, had sent me here. Some overwhelming force. And because of it I had lost my shadow and memories, and I was on the verge of losing my heart.

			The river was making a pleasant sound below me. Willows grew on the sandbar in the river, their branches drooping down to the surface of the water and swaying gracefully with the current. The water was clear and lovely, and fish were visible in the still waters around the rocks. Watching the river always put me into a calm, quiet mood.

			A stairway led down from the bridge to the sandbar, where a bench stood beneath the willows. A few of the beasts were always resting around the bench. I would often step down to the sandbar with bread in my pocket, tear off pieces of the bread, and feed them to the beasts. They were always hesitant at first but then would stretch their necks toward me and eat breadcrumbs from the palm of my hand. Only the old ones or the very young would do that.

			As autumn deepened, their eyes, so reminiscent of deep lakes, would gradually take on a sorrowful hue. The leaves of the trees would change color and grasses would wither, telling them that the long, hard season of starvation was pressing in on them. And for me as well, as the old man had predicted, it would likely be a long, hard season.





11


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Clothes On, Chaos


			When the hands of my clock pointed to 9:30, she got out of bed, picked her clothes up from the floor, and spent a long time putting them on. I stayed stretched out in bed, propped up on one elbow, half watching her from the corner of my eye. The way she wrapped herself in one piece of clothing after another, so smoothly, without the slightest wasted motion, had all the deep silence of a slender winter bird. She raised the zipper of her skirt, closed the buttons of her blouse in order from top to bottom, and lastly sat on the bed to pull her stockings on. Then she kissed me on the cheek. As many girls as there may be who can remove their clothes bewitchingly, there aren’t a lot who can bewitch by putting their clothes on. Once she had fit all pieces of her clothing in place and straightened her long hair by raising it with the back of her hand, the air of the room felt entirely new.

			“Thanks for dinner,” she said.

			“Not at all,” I replied.

			“Do you always do so much cooking by yourself?” she asked.

			“If my work is not too demanding,” I said. “I don’t cook when I’ve got too much work. Then I just have leftovers or eat out.”

			She sat on a kitchen chair, took a cigarette from her bag, and lit up. “I don’t cook much for myself,” she said. “I’m not that fond of cooking in general, and I hate the thought of getting home before seven, making a bunch of food, and finishing every bit of it. Then it would seem as if I was living just to eat, don’t you think?”

			I thought she might be right about that.

			While I was getting dressed, she took a notepad from her bag, wrote something on it with a ballpoint pen, tore off the page, and handed it to me.

			“My home phone,” she said. “Give me a call if you want to see me or you have extra food. I’ll come over right away.”



* * *



			—

			 				Once she left with the three volumes on mammals to return to the library, my apartment felt strangely silent. I stood in front of the TV, took the T-shirt off the unicorn skull, and spent time looking at it again. Despite a lack of evidence, I was beginning to feel that this could well be the very same enigmatic skull that the unfortunate young infantry captain had found on the Ukrainian front. The more I looked at it, the more I felt something like its history hovering around it. That could have been my imagination, of course, since I had just heard the story. I gave the skull another light tap with the stainless-steel rod for no special reason.

			Next I brought our dishes and glasses to the kitchen sink and washed them, then wiped down the kitchen table. It was time to start my shuffling. To prevent interruptions, I switched the phone to the recording service, disconnected the doorbell wire, and turned out all the lights in the apartment besides the floor lamp in the kitchen. For the next two hours at least, I would have to be completely alone and concentrate all my attention on the shuffling.

			My shuffling password was “End of the World.” I would be rearranging already-brain-washed figures for calculations to be done on the computer based on a highly individualized drama titled End of the World. Of course, this was entirely different from the kind of “drama” you see on TV. It was more chaotic, without a clear-cut plot. I just call it a drama for convenience’s sake, and besides, I had never been told anything about its content. All I knew was that title: End of the World.

			The System’s scientists were the ones who had set my drama. I had done a year of training to become a Calcutec, and after I had passed my final exam, they had frozen me for two weeks, examined my brain waves in meticulous detail, extracted what might be called the core of my consciousness, set that to be my shuffling pass drama, and then reinserted it into my brain. They told me the title was End of the World, which would be my password for shuffling. In this way, my mind was given a perfect dual structure. First, there is the overall chaos of my mind, inside of which, like the pit of an umeboshi pickled plum, there exists a core consciousness that concentrates and summarizes that chaos.

			The scientists did not, however, choose to tell me the contents of my core consciousness.

			“There is no need for you to know it,” one of them explained to me. “You will be able to retrieve it whenever you need it because, finally, the pass drama End of the World is you. But you will not be able to know its contents. All operations are performed in the ocean of chaos. In other words, you will dive into the ocean of chaos empty-handed, and you will re-emerge from it empty-handed. That unconsciousness is precisely what we need from you. Do you understand what I am saying?”

			“I think so,” I said.

			Then they taught me how to shuffle. Do it alone. Do it in the middle of the night. Do it when my stomach is neither full nor empty. Listen to a set vocal pattern three times repeatedly. That way I can retrieve the drama End of the World. The moment I retrieve it, my mind will sink into chaos. I will shuffle the figures inside the chaos. When the shuffle ends, the retrieval of End of the World will be terminated and my mind will exit the chaos. The shuffle will be complete, and I will remember nothing from it. A reverse shuffle is literally that: a shuffle in reverse. In order to perform a reverse shuffle, I will have to listen to a vocal pattern used for a reverse shuffle.

			That was the program that had been input into me. I was nothing but a kind of unconscious tunnel. Everything would simply pass through me. For that reason, every time I did a shuffle, I would feel utterly defenseless and insecure. A brain wash was different. A brain wash was time-consuming, but I could feel pride in myself for performing one. I had to concentrate all my powers on it.

			By contrast, shuffling involved no pride, no powers, no anything. I was just a tool being put to use. Someone else was using my mind, of which I knew nothing, to process something without my knowledge. I felt I couldn’t even call myself a Calcutec where shuffling was concerned.

			Of course, I was not free to choose any method of calculation I preferred. I was licensed in two methods, brain washing and shuffling, and all I could do was perform one or the other as ordered by my superiors. If I didn’t like that, I would have to quit being a Calcutec, which I had no intention of doing. As long as I didn’t have any squabbles with the System, Calcutec was the one profession in which I could most freely exercise my individual abilities and earn a good income. If I worked for fifteen years, I could put away enough money to take it easy for the rest of my life, which was why I had sailed through one dizzyingly competitive test after another and survived the most grueling training imaginable.

			Alcohol was no impediment to shuffling. In fact, moderate intoxication was even recommended as a way to counteract tension, but as a matter of personal conviction, I made it a point to purge my body of drink before I engaged in shuffling. Especially because I had been away from the practice for two months or more ever since the use of shuffling had been frozen by the System, I felt I had to approach it with more caution than usual. I took a cold shower, did fifteen minutes of vigorous exercise, and drank two cups of black coffee. That was usually enough to clear out any remaining intoxication.

			I then opened my safe and took out the sheets on which I had typed the converted figures and a miniature tape recorder, lining them all up on the kitchen table. To these I added five neatly sharpened pencils and a notebook before sitting down at the table.

			First, I had to set a tape into the tape recorder. I put on the headphones and started the tape, advancing the digital counter to 16, back to 9, and ahead again to 26. Then I left it locked for ten seconds until the counter numbers faded and the signal tone began from that point. It was set so that any other procedures would erase the voice recorded on the tape.

			Once I was through setting the tape, I placed the new notebook on my right and the converted figures on my left. All preparations complete. I had turned the red lamps on the alarms attached to the apartment door and each vulnerable window to On. No slipups. I reached out and pressed Play on the tape recorder, which started the signal tone, along with which a soundless, lukewarm chaos eventually came and swallowed me.

			[me]

			swallowed————–eventually chaos—→





12


			End of the World


			Map of End of the World


			I started making a map of the town the very next day after speaking with my shadow.

			The first thing I did was climb to the top of West Hill at dusk to survey the town below. Unfortunately, the hill was not high enough for me to take in a complete panorama of the town, and my vision had diminished so greatly that I was unable to form a clear image of the surrounding wall. All I could manage was a sense of the town’s general layout.

			The town was neither too large nor too small. In other words, it did not stretch over so vast an area as to greatly surpass my ability to imagine or perceive it, but neither was it so small that I could easily obtain an accurate overview of it. That was all I could ascertain from the summit of West Hill. The high wall surrounded the town, and the river cut across from east to west, dividing the town and its wall into north and south sections, while the evening sky lent the river a deep gray glow. Soon Gatekeeper’s horn resounded through the town, and the clicking of the beasts’ hooves against the cobblestones filled the entire space like rising bubbles.

			Finally, the only way to learn the full shape of the wall was to walk its entire length. This would not be easy to do. I could only go out walking at evening or on dark, overcast days, and I would have to exercise a good deal of caution in straying far from West Hill. A cloudy sky could grow suddenly clear or just as suddenly release a downpour when I was away from shelter. For that reason, I made sure to consult with the Colonel each morning regarding the movements of the clouds in the sky. His forecasts were almost always on the mark.

			“I’ve got nothing else to think about,” the old man said with a touch of pride. “You begin to get the hang of it if you’re watching the movements of the clouds day after day.”

			But even he couldn’t predict sudden changes in the weather, which meant my excursions always involved some danger, with or without his help.

			In addition, the terrain near the wall had thick underbrush in places, wooded stretches, or rocks and boulders, all of which prevented me from getting a close look. People’s houses tended to cluster along the river flowing through the town; a step outside of such areas could make it hard to know where the road was. A promising path could suddenly give out or be swallowed in dense thorn bushes, sending me on strenuous detours or forcing me to retrace my steps.

			I decided to begin my investigations on the western end of town—the area near the western gate and gatehouse—and circle the town clockwise. Things went much more smoothly at first than I had imagined they would. Stretching north from the gate, the wall passed through a flat plain that continued on and on, with nothing near the wall but waist-high grass and a clear path that wove its way through the grass and encountered no significant obstructions. Birds resembling skylarks built their nests on the plain and soared up from among the grass to circle through the sky in pursuit of nourishment before returning to their nests. A small number of the beasts were in evidence there, too. They moved slowly through the grass as if they were floating on water, their heads and backs showing above the grass tops where they searched for green buds to eat.

			I followed the wall northward for a while and eastward. Turning right at one point, I could see some old, disintegrating barracks to the south—three drab two-story buildings in a line and, standing somewhat away from them, a cluster of houses slightly smaller than government employee houses that might have been officers’ residences. Trees had been neatly arranged among the buildings, and the whole compound was surrounded by a low stone wall. Now, though, everything was covered by tall grass and there was no perceptible human presence. Probably the retired military men living in my government housing used to live in one or another of these barracks. Then something had happened that required them to be moved to the government housing on West Hill and the barracks had gone to ruin. The broad grassy plain, too, had apparently been used for military training, judging from the remains of trenches that had been dug among the grass and the stone flagpole bases here and there.

			As I continued eastward, the flat plain gave out and a wooded area began. The plain was increasingly dotted with shrubs until the woods took over. Most of the shrubs had grown up from stumps, their narrow stems intertwining as they rose, their branches stretching broadly sideways at head and shoulder height. The ground was covered by various plants, the undergrowth dotted here and there with dark little blossoms about fingertip size. As the number of trees increased, the land became increasingly rugged, and a mix of tall trees appeared among the shrubs. Aside from the cries of little birds flitting from branch to branch, the woods were utterly silent.

			The growth of trees became ever denser as I followed the narrow trail through the thicket, and high branches came to fill the space overhead, restricting my field of view and making it impossible for me to keep track of the wall. I gave up and took the trail south into the town, crossed the Old Bridge, and went home.

			Even as autumn advanced I was finally able to draw only the vaguest outline of the town. In general terms, it was longer from east to west, and bulged out north and south where North Wood and South Hill were located. The eastern slope of South Hill was a rugged area strewn with rocks and boulders that continued for some distance along the wall. On the east end of the town, an almost trackless forest, far gloomier and more rugged than North Wood, spread out on both sides of the river, its only walkable road a path along the river from which it was possible to observe that part of the wall. As Gatekeeper had told me, the eastern gate had been sealed with a thick coat of a cementlike substance that made it impassable to anyone in either direction.

			The river came surging down from East Ridge and coursed beneath the wall to reveal itself to us beside the eastern gate, after which it flowed straight west across the middle of the town, forming lovely sandbars near the Old Bridge. Three bridges crossed the river: East Bridge, Old Bridge, and West Bridge. Old Bridge was the oldest, largest, and most beautiful. Just after the river passed under West Bridge, it took a sharp turn southward and curved slightly back toward the east before it arrived at the south wall. Before it reached the wall, it formed a deep valley that cut into the side of South Hill.

			The river did not, however, break through the southern wall. Instead, it formed a pool just this side of the wall and was swallowed by a deep limestone cavern. According to the Colonel, on the other side of the wall lay a vast limestone wilderness, beneath which stretched an interlocking network of countless subterranean water veins.



* * *



			—

			My dreamreading, of course, continued uninterrupted during this time. I would push open the library door at six o’clock each evening, have dinner with the librarian, and read the old dreams.

			By this time, I was able to read five or six dreams in the course of an evening. My fingers now could deftly trace the convoluted streams of light, and I could sense the images and sounds with much greater clarity. I still could not understand the significance of the reading of dreams, nor did I have any idea by what principle the old dreams had come into being, but I could tell from her responses that I was doing a satisfactory job. My eyes no longer hurt from the light emitted by the skulls, and they tired far less quickly. Each time I finished reading a skull, she would add it to the row on the counter, and when I arrived at the library the next evening, they would all be gone.

			“You’ve gotten so much better so quickly!” she said. “I never imagined things would go so well.”

			“How many skulls could there be?”

			“A huge number! A thousand or two thousand. Want to see?” She let me into the stacks behind the counter. It was a cavernous room like a school classroom with row upon row of shelves and lines of white beast skulls as far as the eye could see, not so much a library stack as a graveyard panorama. The chilling air of the dead shrouded the room in silence.

			“My goodness,” I said, “how many years will it take to read all these?”

			“You don’t have to read them all,” she said. “You just read as many old dreams as you can. The next Dreamreader will read whatever’s left. The old dreams will go on sleeping until then.”

			“And you’ll be helping the next Dreamreader, I suppose?”

			“No, you’re the only one I’ll be helping. That is the rule. One librarian can only assist one Dreamreader. So when you stop reading dreams, I’ll be leaving the library, too.”

			I gave her a nod. I didn’t understand, but it seemed perfectly reasonable to me. We stood there, leaning against the wall and looking at the rows of white skulls on the shelves.

			“Have you ever gone to see the place called Southern Pool?” I thought to ask.

			“Yes, I have gone there. Once, a long time ago, when I was a little girl. My mother took me to see it. Ordinary people don’t go there, but my mother was a little different. What about Southern Pool?”

			“I’d like to see it.”

			She shook her head. “It’s a much more dangerous place than you think. You should never go near it. There’s no need for anybody to go there, and it’s not that interesting to see. Why do you want to go to such a place?”

			“I want to learn everything I can about this town. Top to bottom. If you won’t guide me to the pool, I’ll go by myself.”

			She looked at me for a while, eventually releasing a little sigh as if to say she had given in.

			“All right,” she said. “I guess you’re not the kind of person who does what he’s told, and I can’t let you go there by yourself. But please keep this in mind: the pool scares me to death, and I don’t ever want to go there again. There’s something unnatural about the place.”

			“Don’t worry,” I said. “If we go there together and we’re careful, there’s nothing to be afraid of.”

			She shook her head. “You don’t know how truly frightening the pool is. You’ve never seen it. Its water is no ordinary water. It tries to draw you in. I’m telling you the truth.”

			“We’ll be careful not to get too close,” I promised and took her hand. “All we have to do is observe it from a distance. I just want one quick look.”



* * *



			—

			 				We headed for Southern Pool after lunch on a dark November afternoon. A little before it came to Southern Pool, the river made a deep valley by wearing away the western face of South Hill, and because dense brambles lined both sides of the valley, closing off the road, we had to approach the pool by circling around from the east side of South Hill. It had rained all morning, and the thick layer of fallen leaves underfoot made a soppy sound with each step we took. On the way, we encountered two beasts coming in the opposite direction. They passed us with no look of recognition, their golden heads wagging slowly from side to side as they walked.

			“Their food supply is running out,” she said. “They have to search hard for berries when winter draws near. That’s why we’re seeing those two in a place like this. The beasts almost never come this far.”

			We saw no more beasts after leaving the South Hill slope behind, and all signs of the road disappeared. As we advanced westward, cutting across an empty, withered field and through a dilapidated village of abandoned houses, the sound of water reached us from the pool with increasing clarity.

			The sound was different from any I had ever heard before—say, the sound of a waterfall or the moaning of the wind, or the rumbling of the earth. It was like a rasping sigh emitted by a giant throat—low at times, then higher, broken off, then strangled.

			“It sounds as if it’s shouting at someone, don’t you think?”

			She looked at me without a word and walked ahead, parting the thicket with her gloved hands.

			“The path is much worse than it used to be,” she said. “It wasn’t this terrible the time I was here. Maybe we should just turn around and go home.”

			“We made it this far at least. Let’s get as close as we can.”

			The rugged terrain rose and fell unpredictably as the sound of water led us through the brambles. After ten minutes of this, the view suddenly opened before us. The long thicket ended there, and a grassy plain spread out along the river. On our right we could see the deep valley that the river had carved into the earth. The river widened after it left the valley, came through the thicket and reached the grassy plain where we were standing. Where it took its last curve near the entrance of the plain, the river became suddenly calm, its color changing to an ominous deep blue. It moved slowly, swelling up ahead like a snake that has swallowed a small animal, and forming a gigantic pool. I walked along the river toward the pool.

			“Don’t get too close,” she said, softly taking my arm. “The surface looks calm enough, but down below it’s a horrible whirlpool. If you get sucked in, that’s the end of you, you can never make it to the surface again.”

			“How deep do you think it is?”

			“Deeper than you could ever imagine. The whirlpool is like a drill that keeps boring into the rock, making it deeper and deeper. Legend has it they used to throw heretics and criminals in there long ago.”

			“What would happen to them?”

			“They’d never come up again. I’m sure you’ve heard of the underground caverns. There are lots of caverns down below with wide-open mouths. Anyone sucked into them would drift through the darkness forever.”

			Everything was dominated by the giant breaths boiling up from the pool like steam. They were like agonized screams of the numberless dead reverberating from the bottom of the earth.

			She picked up a palm-sized chip of wood and flung it toward the very center of the pool. It floated on the water for five seconds or so before it suddenly began shuddering and disappeared beneath the surface like a swimmer being pulled under by the legs, never to float up again.

			“Like I said, a powerful whirlpool is spinning down there. You see what I mean now, don’t you?”

			We sat down in the field some ten meters away from the pool, took out the bread we had stuffed in our pockets, and started munching on it. Seen from a distance, the view before us was filled with peace and quiet. Autumn flowers colored the field, the trees were covered in brilliant foliage, and in the center of the scene was the pool with its perfectly smooth, mirrorlike surface. A white limestone cliff rose up on the far side of the pool, and hulking over that was the black brick presence of the wall. Except for the breathing of the pool, the scene was one of utter stillness, unbroken even by the stirring of a leaf.

			“Why do you want a map so badly?” she asked me. “Even if you had one in hand, you could never leave this town.”

			She brushed away the breadcrumbs on her lap and glanced at the pool.

			“Do you want to leave the town?”

			I shook my head in silence. Did that mean “No”? Or was it a sign that I could not make up my mind? Not even I knew the answer to that.

			“I don’t know,” I said. “I just want to learn about the town—its shape, how it came to be, where the people are, and what kind of lives they lead. I want to know what made the rules for me and what has sway over me. I don’t even know what comes next.”

			She shook her head slowly from side to side and looked me in the eye.

			“Nothing comes next,” she said. “Don’t you realize that? This is the absolute End of the World. All we can do is stay here for eternity.”

			I lay back, looking up at the sky. The only kind of sky I was able to look at was a cloudy, dark one. Wet by the morning rain, the ground was chilly and damp, but still I felt myself enveloped by the pleasant smell of the earth.

			Several birds took off from the thicket, wings flapping loudly. They sailed over the wall and disappeared into the southern sky. Only birds can pass over the wall. A dense, low-hanging cloud foretold the harsh winter that was almost upon us.





13


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Frankfurt, Door, Independent Organization


			As always, my consciousness returned in stages beginning with the corners of my field of vision. The first things to capture my consciousness were the bathroom door on the right edge of my field of vision and the floor lamp on the left edge. The two moved toward each other bit by bit, meeting in the middle the way ice forms on a pond. In the very center of the field was my alarm clock, its hands pointing to 11:26. I had received it as a keepsake at someone’s wedding reception. To turn off the buzzer, you had to push the red button on the left side and the black button on the right side simultaneously. That was the only way to make it stop. This was a unique mechanism designed to prevent the common behavior pattern whereby the user reflexively presses the button to stop the buzzer before he is fully awake and then goes back to sleep, and it certainly worked for me: whenever the buzzer sounded, I would have to sit up straight in bed in order to place the clock on my lap so that I could press the left and right buttons simultaneously with my left and right hands, during which operations my consciousness had no choice but to take a step or two into an awakened world. At the risk of repeating myself, let me say again that I had received the clock as a keepsake at someone’s wedding reception. Whose wedding it was, I cannot recall. I still had some friends or acquaintances around me when I was in my mid-twenties, and one year I had to attend a number of weddings in close succession, at one of which I had received the clock. On my own initiative, I would never have bought a clock that forced you to bother pushing two buttons at once to turn the buzzer off. For one thing, I have no trouble waking up in the morning.

			When the two sides of my field of vision bonded in the vicinity of my alarm clock, by reflex I picked up the clock, set it on my lap, and pushed the red and black buttons with my two hands. Only then did I notice that the buzzer was not sounding. I had not been sleeping and, therefore, had not set the alarm clock but had just happened to place the alarm clock on my kitchen table. I had been shuffling, and so there was no need for me to turn off the alarm clock’s buzzer.

			I put the clock back on the table and surveyed my surroundings. The room looked exactly as it had before I commenced the shuffling. The security alarms were all showing their red On lights and my empty coffee cup stood on the corner of the table. On the glass coaster I used as an ashtray remained her last cigarette butt, as straight as ever. A Marlboro Light. It bore no lipstick stain. Come to think of it, she didn’t wear any makeup.

			Next, I checked the notebook and pencils that lay before me. Of the five cleanly sharpened F pencils, two were broken, two had been worn down to the wood, and only one remained as new as before. The middle finger of my right hand still had the kind of mild numbness one feels after a lot of writing. The shuffling was done: sixteen pages of the notebook were crammed with tiny figures.

			As stipulated in the manual, I compared the number of entries in each category of converted brain-wash figures and shuffled figures, after which I burnt the first list in the kitchen sink. I then put the notebook into a strongbox and locked it in the safe along with the tape recorder. Then I sat on the living-room sofa and heaved a sigh. The job was half finished now. I could get by doing nothing for at least another day.

			I poured myself two fingers of whiskey and drained the glass in two gulps with my eyes closed. The warmth of the alcohol passed through my throat, down my esophagus, and into my stomach. Then it was transported to all parts of my body through my blood vessels. My chest and cheeks grew warm first, then my hands, and finally my legs and feet. I went to the bathroom, brushed my teeth, drank two glasses of water, peed, went to the kitchen, resharpened the pencils, and arranged them in the pencil tray. Next, I returned the alarm clock to its place by the head of the bed and turned the answering machine off. The clock hands were pointing to 11:57. Tomorrow would be a whole new day. I slipped out of my clothes, put on my pajamas, and crawled into bed, pulling the blanket up to my chin and turning out the lamp. Let’s make it twelve solid hours, I told myself. Twelve solid hours of sleep, and don’t let anybody bother you. The birds could go on singing, the people could take subways to offices, a volcano somewhere in the world could have a massive eruption, but I was going to go on sleeping.

			I thought about what my life would be like after I retired as a Calcutec. I’d have plenty of money saved up, and with that and my pension, I’d take it easy studying Greek and the cello. I’d throw my cello case in the back seat of my car and head up to the mountains to practice the cello alone to my heart’s content.

			With any luck, I could buy a cabin in the mountains, a pretty little place with a decent kitchen. I’d spend my time reading, listening to music, watching videos of old movies, and cooking. “Cooking”: that reminded me of the long-haired reference librarian. It might be nice to have her there, too—in my mountain cabin. I’d cook and she would eat.

			While I was thinking about cooking, I fell asleep. It came over me all of a sudden as if the sky had fallen. The cello, my cabin in the mountains, cooking: everything scattered and vanished into space, leaving only me behind, sleeping as soundly as a tuna in the sea.



* * *



			—

			Someone was using a drill to make a hole in my head, into which they were stuffing some kind of paper twine. It was a very long piece of twine judging from the way more and more of it kept being fed through the hole and into my head. I waved my hand, trying to brush the twine away, but it just kept coming and coming.

			I sat up in bed and rubbed my palms against both sides of my head, but there was no twine. No hole, either. A bell was ringing. I grabbed my alarm clock, set it on my lap, and used both hands to push the red and black buttons. But still the bell kept ringing. It was the telephone. The clock hands were pointing to 4:18. It was still dark out, so it must have been 4:18 in the morning.

			I got out of bed, walked into the kitchen, and picked up the receiver. Every time the phone rings in the middle of the night, I promise myself that next time I will be sure to return the phone to the bedroom before I go to sleep, but I immediately forget to do it and always end up smacking my shin against a table leg or the gas stove or something.

			“Hello,” I said.

			The other end was soundless—perfectly soundless, as if the person’s phone were buried in sand.

			“Hello!” I shouted, but the phone stayed as silent as ever—no breathing, no clicks. The silence on that end was so deep I felt as if it might reach out through the phone line and drag everything into it—including me. I hung up, angry, chugged some milk from the refrigerator, and crawled back into bed.

			The next ring came at 4:46. I got out of bed, followed the same route to the telephone, and picked up the receiver.

			“Hello,” I said.

			“Hello,” said a woman’s voice, though I couldn’t tell whose. “I’m sorry about before. The sound field is disturbed, so the sound sometimes drops out.”

			“The sound drops out?”

			“Yes, that’s right,” she said. “There was a sudden disturbance in the sound field a little while ago, which means something must have happened to my grandfather. Uh, can you hear me?”

			“I can hear you,” I said. It was the granddaughter of the strange old man who had given me the unicorn skull, the fat girl in the pink suit.

			“He’s been away too long. And then all of a sudden this disturbance in the sound field started. Something bad has happened, I’m sure of it. He doesn’t answer when I call his lab. The Murks have attacked him and done something terrible.”

			“Are you sure? Maybe it’s something simple, like he’s too carried away with his experimenting to think about coming home. Remember how he didn’t notice for a whole week that he had left you sound-pulled? He’s the kind of person who forgets about everything else when he really gets into something, isn’t he?”

			“No, not at all,” she said. “I can tell there’s something wrong. My grandfather and I are in touch with each other’s feelings: if something happens to one, the other can tell. Something’s happened to him. Something bad. And the audio barrier’s been broken, no question. That’s why the subterranean sound field’s disturbed.”

			“What’s that all about?”

			“The audio barrier—a device that emits certain sound signals that keep the Murks away. It’s been destroyed, which is why the area’s sound balance is so screwed up. I’m absolutely certain the Murks have attacked my grandfather.”

			“What for?”

			“Everybody’s after his research—the Murks, the Semiotecs, people like that. They’ve all been trying to get their hands on it. They made him offers, but he rejected them outright, so they were really angry. Please come here right away. I’m sure something terrible is going to happen. Please help.”

			I pictured that creepy subterranean road with the Murks prowling around undeterred. The mere thought of going down there now made my hair stand on end.

			“I’m really sorry,” I said, “but my job is to calculate stuff. That’s the only thing in my contract. What you’re asking is way beyond me. I’d be glad to do anything I can for you, but fighting with the Murks to get your grandfather back is not something I can do. That’s for the police or the System’s professionals, the ones who’ve had the specialized training for such things.”

			“The police are out of the question. If I asked them to get involved, everything would come out in the open. And if that happened, the world would end.”

			“The world would end?”

			“Yes, so please, come and help me right away. Otherwise, there’ll be no way to undo what’s going to happen. They’re after my grandfather, but next it’s you.”

			“Me? Why would they be after me? I could see it if they were after you, but I don’t know a thing about your grandfather’s research.”

			“You’re the key,” she said. “Without you, the door won’t open.”

			“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” I said.

			“I can’t explain it on the phone. There’s no time for that. But this is really important, way more important than you think. Please believe me. This is really important for you. If we don’t act now, it’ll be too late. You’ll be finished. I’m telling you the truth.”

			“Oh, man,” I said, looking at the clock. “Anyhow, you’d better get out of there. If you’re right about this, it’s too dangerous for you to stay there.”

			“Where should I go?”

			I told her about an all-night supermarket I knew of in Aoyama. “Wait for me at the coffee stand inside. I can get there by five thirty.”

			“I’m so scared! I don’t know, it’s—” The sound died again. I tried shouting into the mouthpiece but got no answer. Silence rose from the receiver like smoke from a gun. So—the sound field was disturbed. I changed out of my pajamas for a sweatshirt and cotton pants. Then I went to the bathroom, did a quick shave with my electric razor, washed my face, and straightened my hair in the mirror. Thanks to sleep deprivation, my face looked as puffy as a cheap cheesecake. All I wanted was a good night’s sleep. I wanted to get some solid sleep, get my energy back, and live a normal, ordinary life. Why wouldn’t everybody just leave me alone? What did unicorns and Murks have to do with me?

			I put a nylon windbreaker on over my sweatshirt and put my wallet, some small change, and my knife in my pockets. After a few seconds’ indecision, I wrapped the unicorn skull in two bath towels and put it into a sports bag with the stainless-steel rod. Next to those I threw in the strongbox containing the notebook with the shuffled figures. This apartment was by no means safe. A pro could unlock the front door and the safe in the time it would take to launder a handkerchief.

			I slipped into my sneakers, only one of which I had finished washing, and left the apartment with the sports bag under one arm. There was no one in the hallway. I took the stairs down to avoid the elevator. Before sunup, the building was absolutely hushed. There was no one in the garage, either.

			Something was wrong. It was too quiet. They had been after my skull long enough now so there should have been at least one person staking me out. But no. It was as if they’d forgotten about me.

			I got into my car, dropped the bag on the passenger seat, and started the engine. It was a little before five in the morning. I scanned my surroundings as I drove out of the garage and headed for Aoyama. The roads were deserted, with almost nothing on them but taxis hurrying home and all-night freight trucks. I checked the rearview mirror now and then but didn’t spot anyone following me.

			There was something funny about the way things were going. I knew every last trick the Semiotecs had up their sleeves. If they were planning to do something, they would go all out to the bitter end. Nothing half-baked for them, like bribing some gas-leak inspector or failing to stake out a target. They would always pick the fastest, surest method and execute it without a second thought. One time, two years before, they had grabbed five Calcutecs, sawed off the tops of their skulls, and pulled out their brains. They were trying to read data directly from the living brains. The experiment failed, and the corpses of the five Calcutecs were found floating in Tokyo Bay, their brains gone and everything missing from the forehead up. That was how uncompromising the Semiotecs could be. So there was something weird going on.

			I pulled into the supermarket parking lot at 5:28, just before the agreed-upon time. The eastern sky was beginning to grow light. I went inside with the bag in my arms. The big store had hardly anyone in it. A young man wearing a striped uniform sat in a chair by the cash register, reading a magazine from the rack. A woman of uncertain age and occupation drifted through the aisles, her shopping cart piled high with canned goods and instant foods and other stuff. I turned at the liquor display and headed for the coffee stand.

			She wasn’t on any of the dozen stools at the bar. I sat on the first stool and ordered milk and a sandwich. The milk was too cold to taste and the ready-made sandwich in plastic wrap had soggy bread. I ate the sandwich one slow bite at a time and took the milk in small sips. I killed time looking at a Frankfurt travel poster. It had a fall scene with brightly colored foliage on trees by a river where swans were swimming and an old man in a black coat and cloth cap was feeding the swans. There was a fine old stone bridge and, behind that, the steeple of a cathedral. Lots of people were sitting on benches by the riverbank. They all wore coats, and many of the women had scarves on their heads. It was a nice photo, but looking at it gave me the chills, not just because Frankfurt looked cold in the autumn: the sight of a tall, pointed tower always gave me the chills.

			I shifted my gaze to a cigarette-advertising poster on the opposite wall. A smooth-faced young man with a lighted filter cigarette between his fingers was looking ahead at an angle with unfocused eyes. How were models in cigarette ads always able to adopt that “I’m not looking at anything, I’m not thinking anything” look in their eyes?

			As I sat there half staring at the store’s posters, six o’clock came with no sign of the fat girl. Why was she so late? She had told me to get there as soon as possible. But this was not a problem I could solve by thinking about it. I had gotten there as soon as I could. The rest was her problem, not mine. None of this had anything to do with me.

			I ordered a cup of hot coffee and drank it slowly without milk or sugar.

			The number of customers gradually increased after six o’clock—a housewife there to buy bread and milk for breakfast, a student in need of a snack on his way home after a night on the town. One young woman came to buy toilet paper, and a businessman in a hurry bought three different newspapers on his way out. A couple of middle-aged men shouldering golf bags stopped by for pocket-size bottles of whiskey.

			I waited until six thirty, but the girl didn’t show. I gave up, went out to my car, and drove to Shinjuku Station. Leaving the car in the garage, I carried the bag to the luggage-check counter and left it with them, asking the clerk to handle it carefully because the contents were fragile. He tied a red “Fragile” tag with a picture of a cocktail glass to the handle. I watched while the blue Nike sports bag was put in its assigned place on a shelf and I received my receipt. Next, I went to a kiosk and bought an envelope and 260 yen worth of stamps, dropped the receipt into the envelope, pasted the stamps on, and mailed it express to a secret post-office box I had rented under the name of a fictitious company. Now, barring exceptional circumstances, no one would ever find the skull. I use this technique now and then when I have to be especially careful.

			With the envelope safely deposited in the mailbox, I drove out of the parking garage and back home, relieved to think I no longer had to worry about a break-in. I parked in the garage and took the stairs up to my apartment, where I showered, crawled into bed, and fell into a sound sleep as if nothing had happened to me.



* * *



			—

			 				Somebody came at eleven o’clock. I figured it was about time for that to happen, given how things had been going, so it was no great surprise except that this somebody was throwing himself against the door without even bothering to ring the bell. Actually, “throwing himself” was too lukewarm a way to put it. The floor shook as if the door were being smashed open by a steel wrecking ball. It was terrible. But if the guy was that strong, he might as well have threatened the building manager for a master key. I certainly would have preferred him to slip in that way and save me the cost of a repair bill, not to mention that I could end up being tossed out of the apartment for having such a huge commotion.

			While the somebody was busy hurling himself against my door, I put on pants and a sweatshirt, hid my switchblade under my belt, and went to the bathroom for a pee. As an added precaution, I opened the safe and pushed the emergency switch on the tape recorder, erasing the entire contents of the cassette. Then I opened the refrigerator and consumed a can of beer and some potato salad to make up for the lunch I was about to miss. There was an emergency rope ladder on the balcony which I could have used to escape if I had wanted to, but I was too tired to do a lot of running around. Besides, no amount of running around would have solved any of the problems I was facing—or should I say the problems I was tangled up in, which were far too difficult for me to solve on my own. I had to have a serious talk with somebody about them.

			I had gone to the subterranean laboratory of a scientist who had hired me to process data for him. I was given something like a unicorn skull there and brought it home with me. Shortly afterward, a gas-leak inspector who had apparently been bought off by the Semiotecs came to my place and tried to steal the skull. I got a call the next morning from the granddaughter of the scientist asking me to help her because her grandfather was under attack by the Murks. I ran to the place we agreed to meet, but she never showed. I seemed to have two important possessions: a skull and shuffled data, both of which I had left at the Shinjuku Station checked-luggage counter.

			One puzzle after another. I needed somebody to give me a hint. Otherwise, I could be a fugitive forever, running in circles with a skull in my arms.

			I had just finished my beer and potato salad and was taking a moment to breathe when my steel door exploded inward and a gigantic guy I had never seen before lumbered inside. He wore a flashy aloha shirt, oil-stained khaki army pants, and white sneakers the size of scuba-diving flippers. He had a buzz-cut head, a pug nose, and a neck as thick as a normal person’s waist. He seemed to have thick gray metal eyelids and the whites of his eyes were sickeningly gelatinous. At first I thought they might be glass eyes, but when I saw the way the irises flicked back and forth, I could tell they belonged to him. He was probably close to two meters tall, his shoulders so broad that even though his huge aloha shirt could have been a bedsheet folded in two and wrapped around him, his chest was bursting out of it, the buttons ready to pop.

			The monster glanced at the door he had just destroyed with the same look I would give to a cork I had just pulled. And then he turned to me. His feelings toward me seemed to be no more complex than they might have been toward a piece of furniture—which I would just as soon have been at the moment.

			He shifted his bulk aside to reveal a little man standing behind him, a full half-meter shorter than the monster, slim, with a well-balanced face. He wore a pale-blue Lacoste polo shirt, beige chinos, and light-brown shoes, all of which he had probably bought at an upscale children’s clothing store. A gold Rolex gleamed on his wrist, but since there are no children’s Rolexes, it looked oversized on him, like a wrist radio from Star Trek. He was in his late thirties or early forties. If he had been another twenty centimeters taller, he might have been a TV leading man.

			Jumbo tramped straight into my kitchen without removing his shoes, went around to the other side of the table, and pulled out the chair across from me. Tiny slowly followed him in and sat in the chair. Jumbo sat on the sink and folded his massive arms, which were as thick as a normal person’s thighs. He settled his dull gaze on my back just above my kidneys. Yes, I really should have climbed the ladder down from the balcony and gotten the hell out of there. These days, my decision-making powers had suffered a noticeable decline. Maybe it was time for me to have a mechanic take a look under my hood.

			Tiny barely glanced at me and had nothing to say. He took a box of cigarettes and a lighter from his pocket and set them on the table side by side: Benson & Hedges and a gold Dupont. At this rate, I couldn’t help thinking, the trade imbalance must be a myth cooked up by foreign governments. He deftly twirled the lighter between two fingers. So now the circus was making house calls. Not that I recalled having asked them to come.

			On top of the refrigerator, I found a Budweiser-logo ashtray I had been given at the liquor store, and after wiping the dust off with my fingers, I set it in front of the little man. He lit up with one quick click, narrowed his eyes, and blew a puff of smoke into the air. There was something strange about his smallness. His face, arms, and legs were small in perfect proportion to one another, as if he were a normal human being who had been downsized in a copier, thanks to which the Benson & Hedges looked as large as a new color pencil in his hand.

			He stared at the burning tip of his cigarette without saying a word. At this point in a Jean-Luc Godard film, there would have been a subtitle: “He watches his cigarette burning,” but, for better or worse, Godard films were no longer fashionable. Once enough of his cigarette had turned to ash, he tapped it with his finger, dropping the ashes onto the table. He paid no attention to the ashtray.

			“About your door,” Tiny said in a piercing, high-pitched voice, “we had to destroy it. So that’s what we did. If we had wanted to be good boys and get in with a key, we could have, but that’s just how it is, so don’t feel bad about us.”

			“There’s nothing here,” I said. “You’ll see if you search the place.”

			“Search?” Tiny said as if I had surprised him. “Search?” Cigarette in his mouth, he scratched the palm of one hand. “Search for what?”

			“Hell, I don’t know, but didn’t you smash the door open to search for something?”

			“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said. “You’ve got the wrong idea. We don’t want anything. We’re just here to talk to you, that’s all. We’re not searching for anything, and we don’t want anything. I’ll take a Coca-Cola if you’ve got one, though.”

			I opened the refrigerator and took out two cans of cola I had bought to mix with whiskey, setting them on the table with two glasses. For myself I took out a can of Yebisu beer.

			“Doesn’t he want to have a drink, too?” I asked, pointing at the big guy behind me.

			When Tiny crooked a finger to summon him, Jumbo approached the table soundlessly and took a can of cola. He moved with amazing agility for one so big.

			“Do your thing when you’re finished drinking,” Tiny said to Jumbo. To me he said only, “Entertainment.”

			I turned around and watched Jumbo drain the can of cola in a single breath. When he was through, he held the can upside-down to make sure there was nothing left, and then, without the slightest change of expression, he crushed it flat between his two palms. With only the crumpling sound of a sheet of newsprint blown by the wind, the red Coca-Cola can was transformed into a flat metal disk.

			“Anybody can do that,” Tiny said. Maybe it was true that anybody could do it, but I couldn’t have done it.

			Next Jumbo gripped the flattened metal in the fingers of both hands and tore it in half, this time with only the slightest contortion of his lips. I had once seen someone tear a telephone book in half, but this was the first time I had seen anyone do it to a flattened Coca-Cola can. I had never tried it myself, so I couldn’t be sure, but this was probably quite a feat.

			“He can even bend a hundred-yen coin,” Tiny said. “Not too many people can do that.”

			I nodded in agreement.

			“He can tear people’s ears off, too.”

			I nodded in agreement.

			“He was a pro wrestler until three years ago,” Tiny said. “A pretty good one. If he hadn’t injured his knee, he could have been a champion. He was young and strong and, for his size, fast on his feet. Once you ruin your knee, though, you’ve had it. You’ve got to be fast to survive in wrestling.”

			He looked at me, so again I nodded in agreement.

			“I’ve been taking care of him ever since. I mean, he’s my cousin.”

			“So your family doesn’t produce many intermediate body types, I suppose?”

			“Say that again,” Tiny said, looking me straight in the eye.

			“Never mind,” I said.

			Tiny seemed momentarily undecided about what he should do next, but he finally let it go, threw his cigarette butt on the floor, and stamped it out. I decided not to say anything about that.

			“You’ve gotta learn to relax,” he said. “It’ll let you calm down and open up to people. You can’t have a heart-to-heart talk with anybody unless you relax. I can see you’re still tense in the shoulders.”

			“Mind if I get another beer from the fridge?”

			“No, go right ahead. It’s your apartment and your refrigerator and your beer, right?”

			“And my door,” I said.

			“Forget about the door. It’s a piece of junk. You pull in a decent salary. You ought to move somewhere with a little better door.”

			I let the door go, took a can of beer from the refrigerator, and drank some. Tiny poured the cola into his glass, waited for the bubbles to settle, and drank down half.

			“Sorry if I’m getting you confused,” he said. “So let me start out with an explanation. We’re here to help you.”

			“By smashing my door to bits?”

			As soon as I said that, his face flushed and his nostrils flared.

			“I told you to forget about the door, didn’t I?” he said very quietly. Then he turned to Jumbo and said, “I told him to forget about the door, didn’t I?”

			Jumbo nodded. Tiny had a short temper. I’m not too crazy about dealing with short-tempered people.

			“We’re here in your best interests,” Tiny said. “You’re so confused, we came to tell you stuff. If ‘confused’ is the wrong word, let’s say you’re lost. Am I right?”

			“Confused…lost,” I said. “No idea, no hint, no door.”

			Tiny picked the gold lighter up from the table and, still in his chair, he hurled it at the refrigerator door. It hit with a dull, sickening thud, and my refrigerator door now had a sharp dent in it. Jumbo picked the lighter up from the floor and put it back. Everything was back to the way it had been except for the dent on the refrigerator door. Tiny drank the rest of his Coke to calm himself down. Whenever I have dealings with a short-tempered person, I like to do little tests of his temper.

			“Why can’t you shut up about one lousy door? Think about the gravity of your situation. We could’ve blown the whole building to pieces, let alone the door. Stop talking about it.”

			So what if my door was a piece of junk? It symbolized something.

			“Okay, never mind about the door,” I said, “but I could be thrown out of the building for something like this. This is a quiet place with decent neighbors.”

			“I want you to call me if anybody tries to throw you out of here. I’ll take care of them—but good. Are you okay with that? We’re not going to cause you any trouble.”

			I was pretty sure they’d cause me even more trouble if they started leaning on people, but I didn’t want to provoke Tiny any more than I already had, so I gave him a silent nod and downed more beer.

			“Now here’s some advice for you,” Tiny said. “It’s none of my business, but once you pass thirty-five, you should kick the beer habit. Beer is for students and manual laborers. It gives you a paunch, and it’s got no class.”

			I nodded and drank some more beer. Yes, it was none of his business. It was precisely so I could drink as much beer as I wanted that I was going to the pool and running all the time to shed the extra flesh around my middle.

			“But I’m nobody to talk,” Tiny said. “Everybody’s got weaknesses. In my case, it’s cigarettes and sweets. Especially sweets: I’m crazy about them. They’re bad for your teeth and they’ll give you diabetes.”

			I nodded in agreement.

			He glanced at his Rolex.

			“All right, then,” Tiny said. “Time’s running out, so let’s cut the small talk. Are you a little more relaxed?”

			“A little,” I said.

			“Good, let’s get down to business. Like I said before, the purpose of our visit today is to help reduce your confusion, if only by a little. So if there’s anything you don’t understand, go right ahead and ask me about it. I’ll answer any questions I can.”

			He started energetically beckoning to me and said, “Come on now, ask anything at all.”

			“First I’d like to know who you guys are and how much of a grasp you have on the situation,” I said.

			“Good questions,” he said, glancing at Jumbo to seek his agreement, and when Jumbo nodded, he turned again to me. “You’re a smart guy when push comes to shove. And you don’t waste words.”

			He tapped his ashes into the ashtray.

			“Think about it this way,” he said. “I’m here to help you. It doesn’t matter for now what organization I belong to. And our grasp of the situation is pretty complete. We know about that old scientist they call the Doctor, about the skull, about the data shuffling—practically everything. We know stuff even you don’t know. Next question?”

			“Yesterday afternoon, you paid off a gas-leak inspector to come in here and steal the skull, right?”

			“Like I already told you,” he said, “we don’t want the damn skull. We don’t want anything.”

			“Then who did pay him off? Or was he just a figment of my imagination?”

			“We don’t know about that,” Tiny said. “We don’t know lots of stuff. Like the old Doctor’s current experiments. I mean, we know what he’s doing—in detail—but not why he’s doing it. What’s he aiming for? That, we’d like to know.”

			“I don’t know, either,” I said. “I don’t know a thing, but people keep bugging me.”

			“We know that. We know you don’t know anything, that you’re just a tool.”

			“So why bother coming here? You know you can’t get anything from me.”

			“Just paying our respects,” Tiny said, tapping the table with the corner of his lighter. “We figured we’d better let you know we exist. And that it’d be easier to work with you in the future if we get it straight with you what we know and how we see things.”

			“Mind if I let my imagination go to work here?”

			“Not at all, of course. Imagination is as free as a bird and as wide as the ocean. Nobody can stop it.”

			“You guys don’t belong to either the System or the Factory. Your MO is different from both of them. You’re probably with a small, independent organization. You’re aiming for a new share of the market, and I’ll bet you’re trying to move in on the Factory’s territory.”

			“Get a load of that,” Tiny said to his Jumbo cousin. “What’d I tell you? He’s a sharp one.”

			Jumbo nodded.

			“He’s so sharp, I can’t figure out why he’s living in a dump like this. He’s so sharp I can’t figure out why his wife ran out on him.”

			I hadn’t been complimented like that in a long time: I felt myself blushing.

			“Your guesses are pretty much on the mark,” he said. “We’re going to get ahold of the new method developed by the Doctor and use it to win this information war. We’re all set to do that, and we’ve got the capital. We just need two things: the Doctor’s research and you. Once we get our hands on those, we can turn the whole bipolar structure of the System and the Factory on its head. That’s the beauty of an information war: everybody’s equal. The side that manages to gain control of a superior new system wins. And wins big. Track records don’t mean a thing. Also, the current situation is abnormal—a total monopoly, you see? The System monopolizes all the information that’s out in the open, and the Factory monopolizes the stuff in the shadows. There’s no competition. Any way you look at it, it violates the laws of a free-market economy. Don’t you agree it’s abnormal?”

			“It’s got nothing to do with me,” I said. “I’m nobody—just a worker ant. I haven’t got another thought in my head. So if you came here thinking you want to get me to join you—”

			“You really don’t get it, do you?” Tiny said with a click of the tongue. “We don’t want to get you to ‘join’ us. We just want to get you, period. Next question?”

			“I want you to tell me about the Murks,” I said.

			“They live underground—in subways and sewers. They eat the city’s garbage and drink sewage. They have almost nothing to do with human beings, so hardly anybody knows they exist. They basically don’t do any harm to people, though if somebody happens to wander into the underground alone, they might capture him and eat him. Every once in a while, a subway construction worker will go missing.”

			“Does the government know?”

			“Of course they know. They’re not stupid. But only the absolute top-level people.”

			“Then why don’t they warn everybody or get rid of them?”

			“Well, first of all,” he said, “if they told the people about the Murks, it would cause a huge panic. I mean, think about it. A creepy bunch like that swarming around down there? It’d scare the hell out of everybody. And secondly, even if they wanted to get rid of them, there’s no way they could do it. Send the Self-Defense Force down into all the subways and sewers of Tokyo and wipe out every last one of them? Impossible! It’d take a major war—in their home territory, the darkness.

			“And that’s not all. They’ve got this fantastic den right under the Imperial Palace. If they were threatened, all they’d have to do is dig their way up to the surface at night and drag some of those folks underground. Japan’d be totally messed up. See what I mean? That’s why the government’s not doing a damn thing about the Murks. And anybody who joined forces with the Murks would have gigantic power at their command: combined, they’d never lose in a coup or a war. They could even survive a nuclear war. For now, though, nobody’s in league with the Murks. Those guys don’t trust anybody. They want absolutely nothing to do with human beings on the surface.”

			“But they’ve supposedly joined forces with the Semiotecs,” I said.

			“True, I’ve heard the rumors. But even if the rumors are true, we’d be talking about the tiniest fraction of the Murks who had their reasons to make a temporary truce with the Semiotecs, nothing more. A permanent alliance between the Semiotecs and the Murks is absolutely inconceivable. Nothing to worry about.”

			“But the Murks have kidnapped the Doctor, you know.”

			“Yeah, I’ve heard that, too. But we don’t have all the details. It could be an act, something the Doctor himself staged to go into hiding. We’ve got a three-way or four-way fight going on, so anything could happen.”

			“What was the Doctor trying to accomplish?”

			“He was doing his own special kind of research,” he said, looking at his lighter from several different angles. “He’s doing it in competition with both the Calcutecs’ and the Semiotecs’ organizations. The Semiotecs try to outwit the Calcutecs, the Calcutecs try to eliminate the Semiotecs, and the Doctor threads his way between the two, keeping up with his research that’s going to turn the whole world on its head. He needs you for that—not the Calcutec you but the individual human being you.”

			“He needs me? How could that be true? I’m just an ordinary guy with no special abilities. There’s no way I can help him turn the world on its head.”

			“We’re looking for the answer to that, too,” Tiny said, toying with his lighter. “We’ve got our guesses but no definite answer. The one sure thing is that his research is focusing more and more on you. He’s been at it a long time, and now his preparations have come together for the final step, all without you knowing a thing about it.”

			“And you’ve been waiting for him to finish that final step so you can get hold of me and his research?”

			“That’s pretty much it,” Tiny said. “But there’s been a weird change in the weather. The Factory has sniffed something out and started to make its move. Which left us no choice but to make our move, unfortunately.”

			“Does the System know what’s going on?”

			“No, they probably haven’t noticed. But they are definitely keeping an eye on the Doctor.”

			“Who, finally, is the Doctor?”

			“He worked in the System for some years—though not at your busywork level, of course. He was in Central Research. His areas of specialization are—”

			“The System?” I said. Things were getting more and more complicated. And though I was in the middle of it all, I was the only one who didn’t know anything.

			“Right: he was with the System. Which means the Doctor used to be a colleague of yours,” Tiny said. “Not that you ever would have come face-to-face with him, but you were in the same organization. Of course, the Calcutecs’ organization is so vast and complicated and so horrifyingly secretive, only a real handful of the very top people know how everything works. Finally, the left hand doesn’t know what the right hand is doing, and the left eye and right eye are looking at different things. There’s just too much information—it’s gotten so nobody can control it all. The Semiotecs try to steal it, and the Calcutecs try to protect it, but nobody can get a grip on the information flood.

			“That’s why the Doctor decided to quit the Calcutecs’ organization and concentrate on his own research. He has too many areas of specialization to count—brain physiology, biology, phrenology, psychology—anything having to do with the human mind and consciousness, and he’s seen as top class in every field, a real Renaissance man you rarely come across these days, a genius.”

			I felt embarrassed to think I had presumed to explain brain washing and shuffling to such a man.

			“It’s no exaggeration to say he built the Calcutecs’ current system almost singlehandedly. Guys like you are like worker bees stuffed full of the knowhow that he created—if you don’t mind my saying so.”

			“No, not at all.”

			“So anyway, the Doctor quit. As soon as that happened, of course, the Semiotecs sent out recruiters because Calcutec dropouts usually become Semiotecs. But the Doctor turned them down because, he said, he had his own research to do. That way, he became an enemy to both the Calcutecs and the Semiotecs—to the Calcutecs because he knew too many secrets and to the Semiotecs because he wasn’t with them so he must be against them. The Doctor knew where he stood, so he built his lab near the Murks’ den. You’ve been there, I suppose?”

			I nodded.

			“It was a great idea. Nobody can get close to that lab. Murks are swarming all around there, and neither Calcutecs nor Semiotecs can beat them. When the Doctor himself comes and goes, he puts out sound waves that the Murks hate. The way they hightail it out of there, he’s like Moses parting the Red Sea. It’s a perfect defense system. I’ll bet you’re the first one he’s ever allowed in there besides his granddaughter. That just goes to show how important you are to him. No question, his research is reaching its grand finale, and he brought you in to finish it off.”

			All I could do was groan in amazement. Not once in my entire life had my existence ever taken on such great importance. It was too weird: I couldn’t get used to the idea. “So, what you’re telling me, then,” I said, “is that the experimental data I processed for the Doctor was nothing more than bait to bring me in there, that it had no value in itself. Assuming the Doctor’s purpose was nothing more than to bring me in—”

			“No, that’s not it,” Tiny said. “That data is a meticulously constructed program. It’s like a time bomb. When the time comes, it’s going to blow up—boom! Of course, this is just what we imagine is going to happen. We don’t know for sure. The only way to find out is to ask the Doctor himself directly.” He glanced at his watch again. “Hmm, there’s not much time left, we’re gonna have to end our little tête-à-tête now. You okay with that? We’ve got something to do after this.”

			“What happened with the Doctor’s granddaughter?” I asked.

			“I don’t know, did something happen to her?” Tiny looked puzzled. “We don’t know a thing. We can’t keep our eyes on everything and everybody. Are you interested in her?”

			“No,” I said. At least I thought I wasn’t.

			Tiny got up from his chair without taking his eyes off me, grabbed his cigarettes and lighter from the table, and stuffed them in his pants pocket. “I think we’ve got things straight with you now,” he said. “Let me just add that we have another plan. By which I mean that for now we have a lot better information than the Semiotecs and we’re running a step ahead of them in the race. We’re way weaker than the Factory, though, when it comes to organizational ability. If they give it their best shot, they’ll probably leave us behind and crush us. Before that happens, we’ll have to tie them down. You see where this is headed, don’t you?”

			“I do,” I said. I saw it clearly.

			“We aren’t strong enough to pull that off, though. We need somebody’s help. Who would you go to for help?”

			“The System,” I said.

			“Get a load of that,” Tiny said to Jumbo. “I told you he was sharp.” Then he looked at me again. “We’ll need some bait, though. No bait, no bites. We’ll make you the bait.”

			“I’m not too crazy about that idea,” I said.

			“It’s not a question of what you’re crazy or not crazy about. We’re in a bind, too. And speaking of questions, now it’s my turn. I’ve got one for you. What’s the most valuable thing in this apartment—most valuable to you?”

			“Not a thing,” I said. “Everything I have is junk.”

			“Yes, I can see that. Your stuff may be junk, but you need things to live here. There must be at least one thing here that you don’t want us to smash.”

			“To smash?” I asked, amazed. “What do you mean, ‘to smash’?”

			“ ‘To smash’ in the usual sense: ‘to smash.’ Like that door,” Tiny said, pointing at the twisted front door with blown-out hinges. “Destruction for the sake of destruction. We’re going to crush everything.”

			“What for?”

			“That’s hard to explain. But the smashing will be the same with or without an explanation. So just tell me what you don’t want us to smash. Trust us, we’ll do right by you.”

			“The video deck,” I said, resigning myself. “That and the TV monitor cost me a lot, and I bought them not too long ago. And the whiskeys in the sideboard.”

			“Anything else?”

			“My leather jacket and my new three-piece suit—just had it made.”

			“Anything else?”

			I tried to think of other things I valued but couldn’t come up with a thing. I’m not the type to surround myself with valuables.

			“That’s all,” I said.

			Tiny nodded. Jumbo nodded.

			Jumbo first went around opening cabinets and closets one by one. From one closet he took out the Bullworker I used to keep in shape, laid it across his back, and did a back press. He was the first person I ever saw who could push the Bullworker all the way in a back press. It was pretty amazing.

			Next he gripped the Bullworker like a baseball bat and carried it into the bedroom. I leaned forward to see what he was going to do in there. He stood in front of the TV, cocked the Bullworker over his head and gave it a full swing into the picture tube. The sound of shattering glass and of a hundred sparking flashes went off simultaneously, and the twenty-seven-inch TV I had bought three months earlier was squashed like a watermelon.

			“Hey, wait a minute,” I said and sprang to my feet, but Tiny stopped me with a slap of a hand against the table.

			Jumbo then picked the video deck up and slammed its control panel against the corner of the TV again and again. The switches went flying every which way and a thread of white smoke rose into the air from the shorted cord like a newly saved soul. When he was sure the video deck had been totally destroyed, he hurled the hunk of scrap to the floor and pulled a switchblade from his pocket. The blade popped out with a sharp click. Jumbo then opened my wardrobe door and proceeded to slash away at my leather jacket and my Brooks Brothers suit, which combined had cost me nearly two hundred thousand yen.

			“What the hell’s going on?” I yelled at Tiny. “You said you wouldn’t destroy my valuables!”

			“No I didn’t,” he answered calmly. “I just asked you which things were most valuable to you. I never said we wouldn’t destroy them. We always start with the most valuable things. That should be obvious.”

			“Oh, great,” I said and took a can of beer from the refrigerator. I drank it while Tiny and I watched Jumbo methodically destroy every last thing in my tasteful little apartment.





14


			End of the World


			Forest


			All signs of autumn soon disappeared. I woke one morning, looked up at the sky, and autumn was gone. Instead of the clear-edged autumn clouds, a thick layer of overcast hung above North Ridge like a messenger bearing bad news. Autumn had been a beautiful, comforting visitor to the town, but its sojourn had been all too brief, and its departure all too sudden.

			Once autumn had gone, a short-lived gap came to replace it, a strangely hushed empty space that was neither autumn nor winter. The golden fur that enveloped the beasts gradually lost its brilliance, increasing in a bleached whiteness that foretold the approach of winter. All living things drew their heads down and braced themselves for the arrival of the season when everything would freeze. The anticipation of winter covered the town like an invisible membrane. The sound of the wind, the rustling of the trees and grass, the silences of night, and even the trampling of people’s shoes on the cobblestones took on a weighty coolness that seemed to portend something such that even the lapping of the river against the sandbar, which I had found so pleasant in autumn, lost its power to comfort me. Everything took on a kind of finality as if each thing had snapped its shell shut to preserve and protect its own existence. Winter was a special season unlike any other for those in the town: birdcalls became short and sharp, the occasional flapping of birds’ wings the only thing that stirred the chilly emptiness.

			“This winter is going to be especially cold,” the old Colonel said to me. “You can tell from the shapes of the clouds. Look over there.”

			He led me to the window and pointed to the thick, dark clouds hanging over North Ridge.

			“This is the time of year when clouds foretelling winter show up there. They’re like scouts sent out in advance, and we can tell from their shape how cold it’s going to be. Smooth, flat clouds mean a warm winter. Big, thick ones mean it’ll be cold—the thicker the colder. The worst are the ones that look like a bird with its wings spread: when they come, it’s going to be a freezing-cold winter. That cloud is one.”

			I narrowed my eyes and looked at the sky over North Ridge. Blurred as my vision was, I could make out the cloud the old man was talking about. It stretched left and right, from one end of the ridge to the other, its middle large and swollen like a mountain, its overall shape exactly what the old man had said: a bird with its wings spread—an ominous giant gray bird that came soaring over the ridge.

			“A frozen winter like this comes once in fifty or sixty years,” the Colonel said. “Which reminds me, you don’t have a coat, do you?”

			“You’re right, I don’t,” I said. All I had was the thin cotton jacket I had been issued when I entered the town.

			The old man opened his wardrobe, pulled out a dark-blue military coat, and handed it to me. It was as heavy as a rock in my hands, and its coarse wool felt scratchy.

			“I know it’s a little heavy, but it’ll be better than nothing. I got it for you the other day. I hope it fits.”

			I slipped it on, first one sleeve and then the other. It was a little wide in the shoulders, and it was so heavy I suspected I’d be unsteady on my feet until I got used to wearing it, but it seemed to fit. As the old man had said, it would be better than nothing. I thanked him for it.

			“Are you still drawing your map?” the Colonel asked me.

			“Yes,” I said. “I’ve still got a few spots left to do, so I’m hoping to finish it. I’d hate to waste the effort I’ve already put into it.”

			“I don’t mind that you’re making a map. You’re free to do it and it’s not hurting anybody. But let me tell you this: you should stop your explorations once winter comes. Don’t stray too far from where people live. Especially with the kind of harsh winter we’re going to have this year, you can’t be too careful. The town doesn’t cover a very big area, but in winter it’s full of dangerous spots you know nothing about. Wait until spring to finish your map.”

			“I see,” I said, “but how will I know that winter has begun?”

			“When it snows,” he replied. “When the first few flakes fall, that is the start of winter. Winter ends when the snow that’s accumulated on the sandbar in the river melts away.”

			We drank our morning coffee looking at the clouds on North Ridge.

			“And this is important, too,” the old man said. “Don’t go close to the wall once winter starts. Or into the Forest. In winter their existence takes on a whole new power.”

			“What’s there in the Forest?” I asked.

			“Nothing at all,” the old man said after giving it some thought. “Nothing at all. At least for the likes of you and me, it has nothing we need. For us, the Forest is an unnecessary place.”

			“Isn’t there anybody in the Forest?”

			The old man opened the stove door, swept ashes aside, and loaded in some coal with a few pieces of kindling.

			“We’ll probably have to start firing up the stove tonight,” he said. “This kindling and coal come from the Forest. Mushrooms and tea and other things like that are harvested there, too. In that sense, the Forest is necessary to us. But that is all. Nothing else.”

			“People must live in the Forest, then—the ones who dig the coal and gather the kindling and find the mushrooms?”

			“Yes, certainly, a few people live there. They supply the town with coal and kindling and mushrooms, and in return we give them grain and clothing. The exchange is carried out once a week in a specified place by specified people. But otherwise, we have no contact with them. They don’t approach the town and we don’t go near the Forest. We are utterly different beings.”

			“How do we and they differ?”

			“In every sense,” the old man said. “Every way you can possibly think of. But take my word for it, you don’t want to get too interested in them. They’re dangerous. They could have a terrible influence on you. You’re not a fully formed human being yet. And until you are fully formed, you’d better keep away from unnecessary danger. The Forest is just a forest. Just label it ‘Forest’ on your map. Do you understand?”

			“Yes, I do.”

			“And the wall in winter is the most dangerous thing of all. When winter comes, it encloses the town with an even tighter grip than usual. It makes sure that we are inside where we belong. The wall never misses a thing that goes on in here. Which is why you shouldn’t have anything to do with the wall or go anywhere near it. As I said before, you are not yet a fully formed human being. You still have uncertainties and contradictions and regrets and weaknesses. For you, the winter is the most dangerous season of all.”



* * *



			—

			I would have to explore the Forest to some extent, though, before winter came. The time was approaching when I had promised to give my shadow the map. He had ordered me to examine the Forest. Once I had done that, the map would be finished.

			As the cloud over North Ridge slowly but steadily spread its wings and came to hang more and more over the town, the light of the sun quickly lost its golden brilliance. The sky clouded over as if covered by fine ash, its feeble light stagnating. The season was perfect for my injured eyes. No more did the sky stretch clear and bright overhead, nor could the raging wind sweep the clouds away.

			I decided to explore the interior of the Forest by entering it from the road along the river, doing my best to walk parallel to the wall so as not to lose my bearings. That way I could also draw the section of the wall that surrounded the Forest.

			This was no easy task. Along the way I encountered a deep depression in the earth that must have been formed by a huge landslide, and a vast thicket of wild strawberries that dwarfed me in height. Also blocking the way was a swamp covered by sticky giant spiderwebs that clung to my face and head and hands as I pressed through. Now and then I would hear the rustling of things moving in the surrounding undergrowth. Overhead stretched a dense cover of giant tree branches that darkened the forest floor as if it were the bottom of the sea. Mushrooms of all sizes and colors grew among the tree roots, looking like the onset of some grotesque skin disease.

			Once I moved away from the wall, however, and stepped into the depths of the Forest, a strangely hushed and peaceful world spread out before me, filled with the fresh breath of deep natural environs untouched by human hands. I found this greatly calming. It looked nothing like the dangerous place the old Colonel had warned me about. Here there was the endless cycle of life supported by trees and grass and little animals, an immutable sense of order to be felt in every stone and clod of earth.

			This impression grew stronger with each step I took away from the wall and into the Forest depths. Ominous shadows faded, and both the shapes of the trees and the colors of grassy plants grew indefinably gentler, while bird cries sounded more carefree. Small meadows opened here and there, and a babbling brook wove its meandering way among the trees, both free of the tension and darkness felt in the parts of the Forest near the wall. I couldn’t tell what could give rise to such a difference between landscapes. Perhaps the power of the wall disturbed the air of the Forest, or possibly it was a simple matter of topography.

			As pleasant as I found it to walk deep into the Forest, I could not get away from the wall completely. If I had wandered in too deeply, I would have lost all sense of direction. There were no roads or other landmarks. I had to take care to maintain the proper distance so that I could keep the wall in the corner of my eye. I couldn’t be sure whether the Forest was my enemy or my ally. The comfort I was feeling might have been an illusion to lure me farther in. As the old man had observed, to the town, I was nothing but a weak, unstable being. I could not be too careful.

			Probably because I did not penetrate the Forest to any real depth, I was unable to spot a sign that anyone lived in there—no footprints, no trace of a human touch. I both feared and hoped to encounter someone, but even as I walked around in there day after day, nothing happened to me that hinted at their existence. I surmised they must be living farther inside. Or else they were very skillful at avoiding me.



* * *



			—

			 				On the third or fourth day of exploring, I discovered a small meadow beside the eastern wall where it turned sharply to the south. Enclosed by the wall’s curve, the meadow fanned out to leave a little space untouched by the thick growth of trees. The oppressive tension characteristic of areas near the wall was strangely absent from this enclave, which was pervaded with the serenity of the inner Forest. The ground here was covered by a lush carpet of short grass, and an oddly shaped cutout of the sky hung overhead. Several foundation stones remained at one end of the meadow, indicating that some kind of structure had once stood there. As I walked from one to the next, I could see that this had been a substantial home with rooms well laid out, not a shed slapped together for some short-lived purpose. It had three separate rooms plus a kitchen, a bathroom, and a front entryway. Tracing the ruins, I tried picturing the spot when the house was still standing. I had no idea who might have built a house deep in the Forest like this or for what purpose, much less why they had abandoned everything.

			Behind the kitchen lay the remains of a stone well, filled in, and covered with grass. Whoever had abandoned the place had probably filled the well in at the time for some reason I could not fathom.

			I sat down beside the well, leaning against its old stone curb and looking up at the sky. The surrounding trees trembled and rustled in the wind from North Ridge. Thick, moisture-laden clouds crept by overhead. I raised my coat collar and watched them drift.

			The wall towered over the ruins of the house. I had never come so close to it in the Forest before. Viewed close-up like this, the wall seemed literally to be breathing. Sitting in this meadow that popped open in the Eastern Forest, leaning against the old well, and listening to the wind as I gazed at the wall, I felt as if I could believe what Gatekeeper had told me: if there was anything perfect in this world, it was the wall. It had been there from the very beginning, just as clouds flow across the sky and rain makes rivers on the earth.

			The wall was far too massive to capture on a map, its breath too intense, its curves too beautiful. Whenever I tried to create a picture of it in my sketchbook, an endless sense of helplessness would overtake me. Depending on the angle from which one viewed it, the wall could change its expression to an incredible degree, which made an accurate rendering all but impossible.

			I closed my eyes for a little nap. Sharp gusts continued to blow, but the trees and the wall gave me plenty of shelter from the chill wind. I thought about my shadow for a while before dozing off. I had to give him the map soon. Details were inaccurate, of course, and the interior of the Forest was almost blank, but winter was nearly here, and once it arrived any further explorations would prove impossible. My sketchbook now contained an overall rendering of the town and the look and locations of the things inside it, plus memos concerning everything I could learn about it.

			I was not confident that Gatekeeper would allow me to meet with my shadow, but he had promised to let it happen when the days grew shorter and the shadow grew weaker. Now that winter was so close, those conditions would seem to have been met.

			Eyes still closed, I went on to think about the librarian. The more I thought about her, though, the deeper grew my sense of loss. I could not pin down the source of that feeling, but what it was, there could be no doubt: it was a pure sense of loss. I was failing to see something where she was concerned—continually failing to see it.

			She and I were together every single day, but that fact alone could not fill the void that was growing within me. She was always there beside me while I read the old dreams in a room of the library. We ate dinner together, shared warm drinks, and I would see her home. As we walked, we would talk about all kinds of things. She told me about her father and her two younger sisters and the things she did each day.

			After I had seen her home, however, I could tell that my sense of loss had grown even deeper than it had been before we got together. There was nothing I could do about this incoherent feeling I had that something was missing. That well was too deep and too dark, and no amount of earth would enable me to fill the void.

			I guessed that my sense of loss could well be linked in some way to my lost memories. My memory needed something from her, but I myself would not be able to respond to that need, and the gap between the two would leave an unsalvageable void in my heart. For now, however, this was a problem about which I could do nothing. My own existence was too weak and uncertain.

			I swept my mind clean of all these convoluted thoughts and submerged my consciousness into sleep.



* * *



			—

			When I awoke, I was shocked to find how sharply the air temperature had dropped. With an involuntary shudder, I pulled my coat tightly around me. The sun was going down. I stood up where I lay on the ground, and as I was brushing grass from my coat, the first snowflake grazed my cheek. The clouds above were hanging much lower than before and had taken on an ominous darkness. A few big, puffy snowflakes were drifting slowly down to earth. Winter had come.

			Before starting back, I took another long, hard look at the outward form of the wall. The wall revealed the perfection of its form all the more strikingly beneath a dark, sluggish sky where snowflakes danced. As I looked up at it, the wall gave me the undeniable sense that it was looking down at me. It stood planted before me like a primordial creature in its first awakening.

			What are you doing here? the wall seemed to demand of me. What are you after?

			But these were questions I could not answer. My brief nap in the cold air had snatched every bit of warmth from my body and poured my head full of some strange, amorphous compound until both head and body felt as if they belonged to someone else, so vague and heavy were they.

			Slipping through the Forest, I hurried toward the eastern gate, trying as hard as I could not to look at the wall. The way was long, and the darkness grew steadily deeper. I felt subtly out of balance, which made it necessary for me to stop every now and then to take a breath, scrape together the strength to keep walking, and reclaim the unity of my dull, scattered nerves. I felt, too, as if, under cover of the evening darkness, something were weighing down upon me. For one brief moment, I seemed to hear the sound of a ram’s horn in the Forest, but that impression slipped away from me with hardly a trace.

			By the time I made it through the Forest to the riverbank, the earth at ground level was fully enveloped in darkness. No stars, no moon, only the snowy wind and the chilly sound of water dominated the area, behind which loomed the dark Forest swaying in the wind. I can’t recall how long it took for me to find my way to the library. All I remember is walking forever along the road by the river. The willow branches swayed in the darkness, and the wind howled overhead. The road never seemed to end.



* * *



			—

			She sat me down in front of the stove and put her hand on my forehead. Her hand was so terribly cold, I felt a pain as if she had stabbed me with an icicle. By reflex I tried to sweep her hand away, but my own hand would not move, and when I tried to lift it, I felt a wave of nausea.

			“What a terrible fever!” she said. “Where have you been? What were you doing?”

			I wanted to answer her, but my mind had been swept clean of words. Even the words that she spoke were nearly incomprehensible to me.

			She found some blankets somewhere, wrapped me in several layers, and laid me down by the stove. Her hair touched my cheek as she did so. I don’t want to lose her, I thought, but I couldn’t tell whether the words had emanated from my conscious mind or had floated up out of an old memory fragment. I had lost too much and was too tired to know. In my helplessness I could feel my consciousness fading away as if my physical self were struggling to prevent my consciousness from rising up without it, but I didn’t know which way to let myself go in this strange split that overtook me.

			She gripped my hand in hers this whole time.

			“Go to sleep,” I could hear her saying, but the words seemed to need a long time to reach me from deep within a distant darkness.





15


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Whiskey, Torture, Turgenev


			Jumbo smashed my entire stock of whiskeys in the kitchen sink. I had an arrangement with the owner of the neighborhood liquor store to deliver me a bottle any time an imported whiskey went on sale, and by then I had a considerable collection. He didn’t miss a single one.

			First he broke two bottles of Wild Turkey, and then he moved on to Cutty Sark, finished off three bottles of I.W. Harper, smashed two Jack Daniel’ses, laid a Four Roses to rest, shattered a bottle of Haig, and finally obliterated a half dozen Chivas Regals all at once. The noise was horrendous, but the smell was even worse. In one blow, he broke open enough whiskey to last me six months, so it was no ordinary smell. The whole apartment was filled with it.

			“Just sitting here is enough to get you drunk,” Tiny said with apparent admiration.

			I sat at the kitchen table with my chin on my hands, resigned to watching the sink fill up with a mound of shattered whiskey bottles. Things at the top of the pile would inevitably work their way down, and anything with a recognizable shape would inevitably end up in smithereens. Blending with the sound of shattering glass was the awful screech of Jumbo’s whistling, though it sounded less like whistling than like the scraping of dental floss through a crooked gap in the air. I couldn’t recognize the tune—if it had one at all. There was just the scraping of the floss through the upper, then the middle, then the lower part of the gap. Listening to it was all I needed to have my nerves worn down. I swung my head in circles and sloshed beer down my throat. My stomach turned as hard as the old leather briefcase of a bank clerk out making the rounds.

			Jumbo went on with his meaningless destruction. Of course, it might have had some meaning as far as the two of them were concerned, but not for me. Jumbo turned my bed over and used his knife to shred the mattress. He dumped the entire contents of my wardrobe and everything in my desk drawers on the floor, ripped the control panel from my air conditioner, knocked over my trash basket, and swept everything out of the closet, smashing any of the contents that needed smashing. He did all this with speed and dexterity.

			After he had transformed the bedroom and living room into a wasteland, Jumbo started on the kitchen. Tiny and I moved into the living room, where the sofa lay upside down, its backrest cut to shreds. We turned it over and sat down on it, watching Jumbo destroy the kitchen. The cloth surface of the sofa was almost untouched, one bright spot in the storm. It was a particularly comfortable, high-quality sofa that I had managed to buy cheaply from a cameraman I knew, one of the top photographers in advertising. He had developed a nervous condition and let me have his office sofa at a good price before retiring to the mountains of Nagano. I felt terrible for him, but at the same time lucky to have his sofa. At least that was one thing I wouldn’t have to buy again.

			I sat on the right end of the sofa with my beer between my hands while at the left end Tiny sat leaning against the armrest with his legs crossed. In spite of the racket, not one of the other apartment-house residents came to see what was going on. Almost everybody on my floor was single and away from the building on weekdays except under the most exceptional circumstances. Maybe the guys knew that and had no misgivings about making as much noise as they wanted to? Yes, that was probably the case. They were aware of everything. They might look like brutes, but they undertook each act with meticulous calculation.

			Tiny glanced at his Rolex now and then to check their progress while Jumbo carefully smashed every last item in the apartment without the slightest wasted motion. If they were going to search the place like this, I couldn’t have hidden even a pencil from them. But—as Tiny had declared at the outset—they weren’t searching for anything. They were just destroying stuff.

			For what?

			Probably to make a third party think they had done a thorough search.

			And who could that third party be?

			I gave up thinking about it, drained my last drop of beer, and set the can on a low table. Jumbo opened a kitchen cabinet, swept all the glasses onto the floor, and started on the dishes. He broke the percolator, the teapot, and the salt, sugar, and flour jars. He scattered my rice all over the floor. The food in the freezer met up with the same fate. The dozen shrimp I had just frozen, the cut of beef filet, the ice cream, the fancy butter, the thirty-centimeter-long sac of salmon roe, and the big batch of tomato sauce I had made all rained down onto the linoleum floor like a swarm of meteorites crashing onto an asphalt highway.

			Next Jumbo picked up the refrigerator, pulled it away from the wall, and tipped it over, door side down. A shower of sparks probably meant he had torn the electric cord near the radiator. I got a headache just wondering how I was going to explain this to an electrician.

			The destruction ended as suddenly as it had begun. It just came to a stop with no ifs, ands, or buts and only a dead silence that took over. Jumbo stopped his whistling and stood on the threshold between the kitchen and the living room, looking at me blankly. I couldn’t tell how long it had taken to turn my apartment into a perfect scrap heap. Fifteen minutes? Thirty minutes? Somewhere in between—longer than fifteen but shorter than thirty? Judging from the satisfied expression on Tiny’s face when he looked at his Rolex, I imagined it was somewhere near the normal time for destroying a nice little apartment. The world is truly full of standard values that people have established for everything—from the time for a full marathon to the length of a single piece of toilet paper.

			“It’ll take you a while to straighten this out,” Tiny said.

			“I suppose so,” I said. “And money.”

			“The money’s no big deal at this point,” Tiny said. “This is a war. You can’t win a war if you’re counting pennies.”

			“It’s not my war.”

			“Whose war—that’s beside the point. And whose money, too. War is like that.”

			Tiny pulled a clean white handkerchief from his pocket, covered his mouth with it, and coughed a few times. Then he inspected the handkerchief and put it back in his pocket.

			“A little after we leave, some System guys’ll be coming here. I want you to tell ’em about us. Tell ’em we wrecked your place looking for something. And that we asked you where the skull was. But you don’t know anything about any skulls. Got it? You can’t tell ’em about something you don’t know about. And you can’t give ’em something you don’t have. Even under torture. That’s why we left the same way we came here—empty-handed.”

			“Torture?” I said.

			“Don’t worry, they’re not going to suspect you. They don’t know you went to the Doctor’s lab. We’re the only ones who know that—for now. So they’re not going to hurt you. You’ve got high marks as a Calcutec—they’ll believe you. And they’ll think we’re with the Factory. Then they’ll get moving. We’ve got it all figured out.”

			“Torture?” I said. “What kind of torture?”

			“I’ll tell you later, everything you need to know.”

			“What if I were to spill it all out to them at Headquarters, tell them everything?” I asked.

			“They’d rub you out—just like that,” Tiny said. “This is not a lie or a threat. It’s the truth. You went to the Doctor’s without telling the System, and you did shuffling for him, which is prohibited. That alone is bad enough, but the Doctor is also using you in his experiment. They’re not going to let you off the hook. You’re in a much more dangerous position than you can imagine. I’m telling you, it’s like you’re standing on a bridge railing on one leg. You’d better give a lot of thought to which way you’re going to fall. It’s no good having regrets after you’re injured.”

			We stared at each other from opposite ends of the sofa.

			“Let me ask you this,” I said. “What’s in it for me if I cooperate with you and lie to the System? The fact is, I’m a Calcutec, I belong to the System, and I don’t know a damn thing about you guys. Why am I supposed to lie to my own guys and hook up with strangers?”

			“Simple,” Tiny said. “We know about your situation but we’re letting you live. Your organization still knows hardly anything about your situation, and if they find out they might rub you out. We’re a much safer bet. See what I mean? Simple!”

			“But the System’s going to find out sooner or later. I don’t know what my ‘situation’ is, but the System is huge, and they’re not stupid.”

			“Maybe not,” he said. “But it’ll be a while before that happens. And in the meantime, if we’re lucky, both we and you might solve our problems. That’s what choice is all about. You choose the side with the greater potential, even if it’s only one percent. It’s like chess. You get checkmated, you run. While you’re running around, your opponent might make a mistake. Even the strongest player can make a mistake. Anyhow—”

			Tiny looked at his watch and snapped his fingers at Jumbo, who jerked his chin up like a switched-on robot and zipped over to the sofa. He planted himself in front of me like a screen—or should I say like a giant drive-in movie screen? He blocked my view of everything, even the ceiling light. A pale shadow enveloped me. It reminded me of the time I saw a solar eclipse in the yard of my primary school. We had all coated panes of glass with candle soot and used them as filters for looking at the sun. A quarter century had gone by since then—and carried me to a very far-out place.

			“Anyhow—” Tiny said again, “we’re going to have to cause you a little discomfort now. Or maybe I should say a lot of discomfort. Remember, though, we’re doing it for your sake, so try your best to put up with it. We’re not doing it because we want to but because we have to. Take your pants off.”

			I did as I was told because it would have done no good to resist.

			“Down on your knees.”

			I got down from the sofa and put my knees on the carpet. Before I could fret much about how strange it was to be kneeling on the floor in a sweatshirt and briefs, Jumbo circled around behind me, thrust his arms beneath mine and grabbed both my wrists at waist level. His movements were smooth and efficient. I didn’t feel as though he had me pinned down, but when I tried moving a little to see, the pain that ran through my shoulders and wrists made me feel as if they were being torn off. Next, he locked my ankles between his feet. Now I really couldn’t move at all, like a duck in a shooting gallery.

			Tiny went into the kitchen and came back with Jumbo’s switchblade. He flicked out the seven-centimeter blade, took his lighter from his pocket, and used it to heat the tip of the blade. The knife itself was compactly designed and not that scary looking, but I could see right away it was not the kind of cheap piece of junk you could pick up at your local five-and-dime. The blade was plenty big for dismembering a human body. Unlike a bear’s, the human body was as soft as a peach, which meant a seven-centimeter blade would do for most purposes.

			After he had sterilized the blade in the flame, Tiny held it steady while it cooled. Then, with his left hand, he pulled down the elastic waistband of my white briefs until my penis was half-exposed.

			“This is going to hurt a little, but I think you can take it,” he said.

			I felt as if a tennis-ball-sized air bubble moved up from my stomach and lodged in my throat. Drops of sweat had formed on the tip of my nose. I was scared—scared he was going to cut my cock so I could never have another erection.

			But he did no such thing. He cut me about five centimeters below my navel, making a six-centimeter sideways gash. The sharp, still-warm blade tip bit easily into my lower abdomen and ran to the right as if drawing a line with a ruler. I tried momentarily to pull my stomach back, but Jumbo had me in such a tight grip I couldn’t budge, and Tiny had his left hand clamped on my cock. Cold sweat gushed from every pore on my body. A moment later, a dull pain shot through me. Tiny wiped the blood from the blade with a tissue and closed the knife. Jumbo let me go. I saw the blood seeping into my white briefs. Jumbo brought a fresh towel from the bathroom and I pressed it against the wound.

			“Seven stitches’ll take care of it,” Tiny said. “You’ll have a little scar, but nobody’s gonna see it down there. Sorry we had to do this, but that’s just how the world works, so stiff upper lip and all that.”

			I pulled the towel away and looked at my wound. It wasn’t very deep, but I could see pink flesh along with the blood.

			“The System guys’ll be coming after we leave, so make sure you show it to them. Tell ’em we threatened to cut you lower down if you wouldn’t tell us where the skull was but you couldn’t tell us because you really didn’t know. So we gave up and left. This is the torture I was talking about. We’ve got even worse ones to use when we get serious. But this is good enough for now. We’ll give you a good look at some of the others if we get a chance.”

			I nodded in silence, pressing the towel against my belly. Though I couldn’t have explained why, I figured I’d better do as they said.

			“You guys are the ones who hired that poor gas inspector, aren’t you?” I said. “You purposely screwed that one up so I’d get worried and hide the skull and data somewhere, right?”

			“He’s a smart one,” Tiny said to Jumbo. “That’s how to use your brain. You’ll survive that way—if you’re lucky.”

			With that, the two of them left my apartment. There was no need for them to open the door or to close it. With its hinges torn off and its frame twisted out of shape, my steel door was now open to the whole world.



* * *



			—

			I pulled off my blood-soaked briefs and threw them in the trash. Then I wiped off the blood caked around my cut with wet gauze. The wound stung and throbbed whenever I bent forward or backward. The front edge of my sweatshirt was also soaked in blood, so I threw it away, too. From among the clothes of mine that had been scattered on the floor of the apartment, I picked a T-shirt of a color that wouldn’t show bloodstains and the briefest briefs I could find and put them on. Just doing this much was a huge effort.

			Next I went to the kitchen, found an unshattered glass and drank two glasses of water, thinking about what I would do when the System people showed up.

			Three guys from Headquarters came about half an hour later. One was the cocky young liaison officer who always came to pick up my figures. He wore his usual dark suit, white shirt, and the kind of necktie you might see on a bank’s lending clerk. The other two had sneakers on and were dressed like moving-company workers. Not that any of them looked like bank or transport employees. They were just dressed not to stand out. They were constantly peering around and had tense, well-trained builds set to respond to any situation.

			They didn’t have to knock, of course, and walked right in without taking their shoes off. While the two mover types inspected every inch of my place, the liaison officer debriefed me. He pulled a black notebook from his breast pocket, and took notes with a mechanical pencil. I explained about the pair who had come and searched for the skull and I showed him the gash on my belly. He looked at it a while but had nothing to say about it.

			“What’s this about a skull?” he asked.

			“I have no idea,” I said. “That’s what I wanted to ask.”

			“You really don’t know anything?” the young liaison officer asked in flat tones. “This is obviously important, so try to remember anything you can. You can’t change your story later. Semiotecs don’t take useless actions based on nothing. If they came here looking for a skull, they must have had reason to believe it would be here. Nothing comes from nothing. And the skull itself must be something worth searching for. I can’t believe you had absolutely nothing to do with it.”

			“If you’re so smart, why don’t you tell me what it’s all about?” I said.

			He tapped his pencil against the edge of his notebook for a while.

			“We’ll get to the bottom of it,” he said. “All the way. When we get serious about something, we usually find out what’s going on. And if it turns out you’ve been hiding something, it could be hard on you. Are you all right with that?”

			I said I was all right. Who knew what would happen? Nobody can tell the future.

			“We’ve suspected for some time that the Semiotecs have something in the works. They’re starting to make their move. But we still don’t know exactly what they’re after. Or how it’s tied in with you. Or what’s up with the skull. But the more clues we come across, the closer we get to the bottom line, that’s for sure.”

			“What should I do?”

			“Keep your eyes open. And take time to get better. Cancel any jobs for a while. And contact us if anything comes up. Is your phone still working?”

			I picked up the receiver. It still had a dial tone. They had probably left it on purpose, I guessed, though I wasn’t sure why.

			“It’s working,” I said.

			“Now listen,” he said. “Call me right away if anything comes up, no matter how unimportant it might seem. Don’t even think about taking care of it yourself. And don’t think about hiding anything from us. Those guys are serious. Next time they won’t just scratch your stomach.”

			“Scratch?!” I blurted out.

			The two movers finished their inspection of the place and came back to the kitchen.

			“They searched the place top to bottom,” the older one said. “They didn’t miss a thing. They know what they’re doing. They’re real pros. No question, they’re Semiotecs.”

			The liaison officer nodded and the other two went out, leaving just the two of us.

			“Why did they have to slash my clothes to find a skull?” I asked. “I couldn’t have hidden it in a place like that—any kind of skull.”

			“They’re pros, and pros think of every possibility. You might have stashed the skull in a coin locker and hidden the key somewhere. A key can be hidden anywhere.”

			“I see what you mean,” I said. I saw what he meant.

			“Anyway, did those Semiotecs make you an offer?”

			“An offer?”

			“Yes, to get you to join them in the Factory. Money or a position. That kind of thing. Or did they take the opposite approach and threaten you?”

			“I didn’t hear anything like that,” I said. “They just cut my stomach and asked about the skull.”

			“Now listen very carefully,” he said. “If they ever try to lure you in that way, do not take them up on it. If you go over to them, we’ll wipe you out if we have to track you down to the ends of the earth. This is not just an empty threat, it’s a promise. The state is with us. There’s nothing we can’t do.”

			“I’ll be careful,” I said.



* * *



			—

			Once they were gone, I tried putting it all together in my head, but my best efforts led nowhere. One question lay at the heart of the problem: what was the Doctor trying to do? Without knowing that, I had no way to figure anything out. I had absolutely no idea what kind of thoughts were whirling around inside the head of that old man. The one thing I knew for sure was that I had, willy-nilly, betrayed the System. If they found out about it—and they were bound to, sooner or later—it could be very hard on me, as the cocky liaison officer had predicted, even if I had had to lie to them under threat. I could confess to my offenses, but still they’d never let me off the hook.

			While I mulled all this over, my gash began to hurt, so I called a cab to take me to a nearby clinic. I pressed a towel against the cut, put on a pair of loose-fitting pants, and slipped into my shoes. Bending over to put the shoes on hurt so much I felt I was breaking in two. All it took was a six-centimeter cut on the belly to turn a human being into a pitiful creature. I couldn’t get my shoes on right or negotiate a stairway.

			I took the elevator down and sat on the planter in the entryway, waiting for the cab to come. My watch was showing 1:30 in the afternoon. Only two and a half hours had gone by since that pair had smashed my door in—a long two and a half hours that felt like ten.

			One housewife after another passed me by carrying supermarket shopping bags from the tops of which were sticking out green onions or daikon radishes or such. I felt a little envious of them, their refrigerators unsmashed and stomachs uncut. Their worlds flowed peacefully by as long as they thought about their children’s grades or how they were going to cook their green onions or daikon radishes. They didn’t have to take charge of any unicorn skulls or trouble their brains with inscrutable secret codes or convoluted processes. That was ordinary life.

			I thought about the shrimp and beef and butter and tomato sauce that must be melting on my kitchen floor just then. They’d all go bad if I didn’t eat them today—not that I had any appetite.

			The postman came along on his red motor scooter and deftly distributed his letters and packages to the mailboxes lined up beside the entryway. I watched as some of the boxes became stuffed with mail while others remained empty. He didn’t touch—or even glance at—mine.

			Beside the mailboxes stood a rubber plant in a big pot into which people had tossed Popsicle sticks and cigarette butts and stuff. The plant itself looked as tired as I felt. Everybody would come along and freely toss in their butts or tear leaves off the plant. How long had that rubber plant been there? I couldn’t remember. Probably from way back, judging from the messy condition of the plant. I passed the thing every day but hadn’t noticed the existence of the rubber plant until I was forced to wait there for a cab because my stomach had been slashed.



* * *



			—

			The doctor inspected my wound and asked me how I got it.

			“I had a little fight over a woman,” I said. I couldn’t think of any other way to explain it. Anybody could tell it was a knife cut.

			“I’m required to report things like this to the police,” he said.

			“No cops, please. I was kinda to blame, and the cut’s not that deep, fortunately. I’d really like to keep it between us. Please.”

			The doctor grumbled this and that, but he gave up soon enough and had me lie down. He disinfected the wound, gave me a few shots, and skillfully sewed the edges of the cut together with a needle and thread. When that was done, the nurse taped a thick piece of gauze over the cut and wrapped an elastic belt kind of thing around my waist to hold it in place, casting suspicious glances at me while she arranged this outlandish getup.

			“I want you to avoid strenuous exercise,” the doctor said. “No drinking, no sex, and not too much laughing, either. Read books for a while. And come back tomorrow.”

			I thanked him, paid at the window, received an antiseptic, and went back to my apartment. Following the doctor’s orders, I stretched out in what was left of the bed and read Turgenev’s Rudin. I would have preferred Torrents of Spring, but finding any one book in the ruins of my apartment would have been impossible and, come to think of it, Torrents of Spring was not that much better than Rudin.

			In bed before sundown with my middle in bandages and reading Turgenev’s old-fashioned novel, I got to feeling that I didn’t give a damn about anything at all. Not one thing that had happened to me in the past three days was something I had gone after. They had all come to me from out there and wrapped themselves around me.

			I went to the kitchen and cautiously searched among the mound of shattered whiskey bottles in the sink. Most of them had been broken to bits with slivers scattered everywhere, but by chance the bottom half of a Chivas Regal bottle remained whole with maybe one drink’s worth puddled inside. I poured it into a glass, which I held up to the light and found to be free of slivers. I brought the glass back to bed and sipped the warm whiskey straight while I read the rest of the novel. I had last read Rudin in college, but now, some fifteen years later and with my stomach wrapped in bandages, I found myself identifying with Rudin in a whole new way. People were incapable of correcting their flaws. Human character was pretty much fixed and final by the age of twenty-five, after which, try as one might, it was impossible to change one’s essential nature. The problem boiled down to how the outer world responded to one’s character. I sympathized with Rudin, thanks in part to the whiskey. I almost never identified with the characters of Dostoevsky, but I felt instant identification with Turgenev’s characters. I even identified with the characters in Ed McBain’s 87th Precinct series, probably because of the flaws in my own character. Human beings with many flaws tend to identify with other human beings who have many flaws. It’s often hard to see the flaws of Dostoevsky’s characters as flaws, which makes it hard for me to identify with them completely. In Tolstoy’s case, the flaws tend to be grandiose and static.

			When I was through reading Rudin, I tossed the paperback onto the bookcase and went to find more whiskey wreckage in the kitchen sink. I found a tiny bit of Jack Daniel’s Black Label at the bottom of a broken bottle, tipped it into my glass, and went back to bed, where I got started on Stendhal’s The Red and the Black. I guess I liked old-fashioned novels. How many present-day young people were reading The Red and the Black? Oh well, I found myself identifying with another protagonist—Julien Sorel this time, whose character flaws seemed to have been determined by the age of fifteen. That fact alone was enough to arouse my sympathy for him. How pitiful, both for him and in the eyes of a stranger, to have all his life’s crucial factors frozen in place at the age of fifteen! He might as well have locked himself in a prison. Trapped inside a world surrounded by walls, he would steadily advance toward his own ruination.

			Something about that struck me where I lived.

			Those walls.

			His world was surrounded by walls.

			I closed the book and, sending the last few drops of Jack Daniel’s down my throat, I spent some time thinking about a world surrounded by walls. With some ease, I was able to picture the walls and a gate—very high walls and a big gate. It was silent there, and I myself was inside. What lay beyond, however, I could not see clearly. My overview of the town was detailed and vivid, but my immediate surroundings were out of focus, and someone was calling to me from beyond that translucent veil.

			I shook my head and swept the image away. I was exhausted. The walls probably suggested the limitations that had been placed on my life. The silence was probably an aftereffect of the sound pulling I had experienced. The surrounding haze was there because my imagination was confronting a devastating crisis. And the one calling me was probably the girl in pink.

			When I was through with this cut-rate analysis of my momentary fantasy, I opened the book again. But I could no longer concentrate on it. My life was a great big Nothing. A blank. A zero. What had I ever made? Not a thing. Had I ever made anyone happy? No, no one. What did I have? I had nothing—no family, no friends, no door, no erection. I was even about to lose my job.

			The peaceful world of the cello and Greek that was to be the final purpose of my life was now facing a crisis. If my work were to be snatched away from me here and now, I would lose the economic basis for such activities, and if the System was going to be chasing me to the ends of the earth, I wouldn’t have time to memorize Greek irregular verbs.

			I closed my eyes, let out a sigh as deep as an Incan well, and went back to The Red and the Black. What I could lose was already lost, and no amount of thinking was going to bring it back.

			Now that I noticed it, the sun was down and a Turgenev-Stendhalesque darkness had descended upon me. Lying still, I could reduce the pain of my belly cut somewhat. A vague, dull pain like the occasional pounding of a distant drum ran from the wound to my side, but if I could manage to ignore that, I was able to forget about the gash for a while. My watch said it was 7:20, but I still had no appetite. I had washed that one soggy sandwich down with milk at 5:30 in the morning and gulped some potato salad in my kitchen just before they smashed my door open, and since then had eaten nothing, but the mere thought of food made my stomach go stiff. I was exhausted and sleep deprived, I had a slit in my belly, and my apartment looked as though it had been bombed by a midget engineering battalion, which left no room for an appetite to figure in.

			Some years before, I had read a science-fiction novel set in a near future in which the world was a wasteland buried in useless garbage, and now my apartment had been transformed into precisely that. Every kind of useless garbage you could think of was scattered over the floor—my slashed-up three-piece suit, the destroyed video deck and TV, shattered vases, a nearly decapitated floor lamp, trampled phonograph records, melted tomato sauce, torn-off speaker cables. The shirts and underwear littering the floor had been rendered all but unusable by the trampling of filthy shoes, ink splashes, and grape stains. The plateful of grapes I had left half-eaten on the night table three days earlier lay crushed underfoot all over the floor. The books that had been tossed out of the bookcase lay soaked in the filthy water from the flower vases, the gladioli lying on the chest of a pale-beige cashmere sweater like funeral flowers offered up in memory of a fallen soldier, the sleeves of the sweater marked by golf-ball-size stains of royal-blue ink.

			All of it had been transformed into useless garbage—a mountain of things with nowhere to go. Dead microorganisms would eventually turn into petroleum, and massive trees would become coal, but everything here was truly useless garbage that led nowhere. What was a destroyed video deck supposed to turn into?

			I went back to the kitchen and rummaged among the shards of shattered whiskey bottles in the sink, but unfortunately there was not a drop of salvageable whiskey left. All the rest had missed its chance to traverse my stomach but had flowed instead down the drainpipe of the sink to subterranean emptiness, descending like Orpheus to the world of the Murks.

			I cut the tip of the middle finger of my right hand on a piece of glass while rummaging in the sink. I stood there for a while, watching the blood ooze from the cut flesh and drip onto a whiskey label. Once you’ve had a major cut, a nick like this didn’t seem to matter. Nobody ever died from blood spilling out of a fingertip.

			I just let the blood flow for a while, but when it showed no sign of stopping, I gave up and daubed it with a tissue and put a Band-Aid on the fingertip.

			Seven or eight cans of beer had rolled onto the kitchen floor like so many cartridges after an artillery battle. I picked one up to find it lukewarm, but even lukewarm beer was better than nothing. I went back to bed with one in each hand and took little sips as I continued reading The Red and the Black. What I really wanted was to let the alcohol release the tension that had built up in my body over the past three days and to get some decent sleep. However much trouble tomorrow might bring—and it was bound to bring a lot—I wanted to be sound asleep during the time it would take for the earth to do one Michael Jackson spin on its axis. Best to welcome in new trouble with new despair.

			A wave of sleep swept over me before nine o’clock. Now desolate as the far side of the moon though it was, even my little apartment qualified for visits from the sandman. I dropped my three-quarters-read The Red and the Black on the floor, cut the switch on my reading lamp, which had managed to escape the massacre, and curled up on my side to sleep, a fetus in the wasteland. No one could interrupt my sleep until the proper time for waking. I was the Prince of Despair, wrapped in my cloak of trouble, out cold with sleep until a toad the size of a Volkswagen Golf came along and kissed me.



* * *



			—

			All such plans aside, my sleep lasted only two hours. The pink-suited fat girl showed up at eleven o’clock and started shaking me by the shoulder. My sleep was being auctioned off at a ridiculously low price, it seemed. Everybody took their turn kicking my sleep like the tires of a used car. They shouldn’t have had the right to do any such thing. I may have been old and worn out, but I was no used car.

			“Leave me alone,” I said.

			“Please, you have to wake up now, please,” the girl said.

			“Leave me alone,” I said again.

			“This is no time for you to be sleeping,” she said as she knocked me in the side with her fist. Intense pain shot through me as if the lid had been lifted on Hell.

			“Please,” she said. “If things go on like this, the world is going to end.”





16


			End of the World


			The Coming of Winter


			When I awoke, I found myself in a bed. It had a familiar smell. It was my bed. In my room. But everything looked slightly different, as if it had all been reproduced from my memory—the ceiling stains, the dents in the plaster, everything.

			I could see through the window that it was raining outside. A winter rain was pouring its sharp, icy drops upon the surface of the earth. I could also hear it pounding on the roof but couldn’t tell how far away the sound was—it seemed both close to my ears and a kilometer away.

			I saw the Colonel sitting by the window, back as straight as ever, on a chair he must have moved there. He sat perfectly still, looking out at the rain, but why with such intensity? It was just rain doing what rain always does, beating on the roof, moistening the earth, pouring into the river.

			I tried to lift my palm and touch my face, but my arm wouldn’t move. I felt heavy all over and wanted to tell that to the Colonel, but I couldn’t even get my voice to work, couldn’t force the mass of air in my lungs up and out. My entire body seemed to have lost the ability to function. All I could do was open my eyes and look at the window and the rain and the old man. I couldn’t recall anything that might have caused me to become so physically debilitated. The sheer effort to remember gave me a splitting headache.

			“It’s winter,” the old man said, tapping on the glass. “Now you see how frightening it is.”

			I gave him a little nod.

			So that was it—the winter wall had wounded me like this. I had fled from the Forest and found my way to the library. I remembered the touch of the librarian’s hair against my cheek.

			“The librarian brought you here. With Gatekeeper’s help. You had a high fever and were moaning in your sleep. And sweating something awful. We could have filled a bucket with your sweat. The day before yesterday.”

			“The day before yesterday…”

			“It’s true, you’ve been sleeping for two whole days,” the old man said. “We thought you might never wake up. You must have gone into the Forest.”

			“I’m sorry,” I said.

			The old man took down the pot he was warming on the stove and moved the contents to a shallow bowl. He put his arms around me and raised me to a sitting position, leaning me against the headboard, which creaked like bones.

			“First you have to eat something,” he said. “Save thinking and apologizing until after that. Are you hungry?”

			I was not, I said. Just breathing was hard enough.

			“You have to have some soup. Three mouthfuls will do. Just take the three mouthfuls and I won’t make you eat any more. Can you do it?”

			The herb soup was so bitter it nauseated me, but I managed to down the three mouthfuls. Afterwards I felt the strength draining out of me.

			“That’s fine,” the old man said, returning the spoon to the bowl. “It’s a little bitter, but it’ll get the bad sweat out of you. Now go to sleep again and you should feel a lot better afterwards. Don’t worry, just go to sleep. I’ll be here when you wake up.”



* * *



			—

			It was dark out when I awoke. A strong wind was pelting the window glass with raindrops. The old man was sitting by my pillow.

			“Feeling better?” he asked.

			“I think I’m a lot better,” I said. “What time is it?”

			“Eight at night.”

			I tried to get out of bed but was still a little shaky.

			“Where do you think you’re going?” the old man asked.

			“To the library,” I said. “I have to do my dreamreading.”

			“Don’t be silly. You couldn’t walk five meters in your shape.”

			“But I’m not allowed to take time off.”

			The old man shook his head. “The old dreams can wait. Both Gatekeeper and the librarian know you can’t leave here for a while. Besides, the library’s probably closed.”

			With a sigh, the old man walked over to the stove, poured a cup of tea, and came back. The wind knocked against the window at regular intervals.

			“It seems to me you’re fond of that girl,” the old man said. “I wasn’t going to ask you about it, but I couldn’t help myself. I’ve been with you this whole time, after all. People say things when they’re delirious. It’s nothing to be ashamed of. All young people fall in love. Am I right?”

			I nodded in silence.

			“She’s a good girl. And she’s been very worried about you,” the old man said, and sipped his tea. “But it would not be appropriate for you to fall in love with her. I’d rather not be saying anything like this, but I should probably tell you before things go too far.”

			“Why would it not be appropriate?”

			“Because she is incapable of requiting your love. It’s nobody’s fault—not yours, not hers. If I may say so, it’s just the way the world is made, which is something no one can change, any more than you can make a river flow backwards.”

			I sat up in bed and rubbed my cheeks. My face felt as though it had shrunk a size.

			“You’re talking about the heart now, aren’t you?”

			The old man nodded.

			“Because I have a heart and she doesn’t, no matter how much I might love her, I can receive nothing in return. Is that what you’re saying?”

			“Yes, that is it,” he said. “You will just keep losing more and more of your heart. As you say, she does not have one. Neither do I. Nor anyone else.”

			“But look how kind you’ve been to me. You worry about me, and you go without sleep taking care of me. Isn’t this an expression of the heart?”

			“No, it’s not. Kindness and the heart are two different things. Kindness is an independent function. More precisely, it’s a superficial function. It’s just a matter of custom, which is different from heart. Heart is deeper and stronger and more contradictory.”

			I closed my eyes and gathered my wildly scattered thoughts one by one.

			“This is what I think,” I said. “People maybe lose their hearts because their shadows have died. Am I right?”

			“Exactly right.”

			“Her shadow has already died, which means she can never get her heart back, right?”

			He nodded and said, “I went to the town office and looked up the record of her shadow to make sure. It died when she was seventeen. It was buried in Apple Wood in keeping with the regulations. The burial record has been preserved as well. You should ask her yourself if you want more detail. That would mean more to you than hearing it from me. I have just one more thing to tell you. She was separated from her shadow before she began to have a mature understanding of things, so she probably doesn’t even remember that she ever had a heart—unlike me. I let go of my shadow of my own free will after I became an old man. That’s why I can still guess the movements of your heart but she can’t.”

			“But she remembers her mother very well. She says she thinks her mother still had a heart—even after the mother let her own shadow die. I don’t know why that would have been the case, but don’t you think it would be of some help? Maybe she inherited some amount of heart from her mother?”

			The old man swirled his cooled tea and slowly drained the cup.

			“Now, listen,” he said. “The wall doesn’t miss a thing. If there were the slightest bit of heart left in anyone, the wall would suck it out of them. And if it couldn’t suck it out, it would drive them out, the way it did to the librarian’s mother.”

			“You mean I shouldn’t hope for anything from her?”

			“I just don’t want to see you disappointed. This town is strong and you are weak. That much should be clear to you by now. Look what it’s done to you.”

			The old man stared into his empty cup for a while.

			“You can get her for yourself, though, if you want,” he said.

			“ ‘Get her’?” I asked.

			“Yes, you can sleep with her, you can live with her. You can get anything you want in this town.”

			“But there won’t be any heart in it, you mean?”

			“No heart,” he said. “And eventually, your heart will fade away, too. Once that happens, you won’t have any sense of loss, no disappointment, no unfulfilled love. You’ll just be living your life. Calm, quiet, everyday life. That’s all that will be left to you. You’ll be fond of her and she’ll be fond of you. If that’s what you want, it will be yours. No one can take it from you.”

			“How strange,” I said. “I still have my heart, but I sometimes lose sight of it. If anything, there may be fewer times when I haven’t lost sight of my heart. Still, I have a certain confidence that my heart will eventually come back to me, and believing that is what unifies and sustains me. I can’t really imagine what it would be like to lose my heart once and for all.”

			The old man gave me a few silent nods before he spoke.

			“You should give that a good deal of thought,” he said. “You still have time to think.”

			“I will,” I said. “I’ll think about it.”



* * *



			—

			The sun didn’t show itself for a long time after that. When my fever abated, I got out of bed, opened the window, and took a deep breath of the outside air. Though I was able to stand on my feet, I remained weak for the next two days or so. I could hardly summon the strength to grasp a doorknob or a handrailing. The Colonel fed me his bitter herb soup every evening and made a kind of gruel that he fed me. He would sit by my bed, telling me old war stories. He never spoke to me again about the librarian or the wall, and I made no point of asking about them. I assumed he would have long since told me anything he had to say.

			By the third day after I had regained consciousness, I had recovered enough to borrow the Colonel’s stick and take a slow stroll around the residence. Once I was actually out and walking, I could feel how much lighter my body had become. I had undoubtedly lost a lot of weight because of the fever, but I sensed my sickness was not the only cause. The winter was imparting a mysterious weight to everything around me, and I alone was unable to enter that weighty world.

			From the slope where the government residences stood, I had a sweeping view of the western part of the town. I could see the river, the clock tower, the wall, and, farthest away, a blurry presence that must have been the western gate. With the black glasses on, my weakened eyes could not make out more detail than that, but I could tell that the winter air had given the town a sharp new outline. It was as if the seasonal winds that rushed down from North Ridge had swept away the layer of obscurely colored dust that clung to every part of the town.

			As I stood taking in the view of the town, I suddenly recalled the map I was supposed to have given to my shadow. Thanks to my illness, almost a week had gone by since the promised day. My shadow might be worried about me, or he might have given up on me, convinced that I had abandoned him. Dark feelings came over me at the thought.

			I had the Colonel find me an old pair of work shoes, pulled out the insole, and replaced it after inserting the tightly folded map. I was sure my shadow would pull the shoes apart looking for the hidden map. Then I gave the shoes back to the old man and asked him to hand them directly to my shadow.

			“All he has are lightweight exercise shoes,” I said. “Walking in the snow with those will be bad for his feet, I’m sure. I don’t trust Gatekeeper to give these to him, but I’m sure he’ll let you do it.”

			“No problem,” the old man said as he took the shoes.

			He came back in the evening and confirmed he’d been able to hand the shoes directly to my shadow.

			“He was worried about you,” the old Colonel said.

			“How did he seem to you?” I asked.

			“I think the cold has been getting to him a little, but he’s still fine. No need to worry.”



* * *



			—

			On the evening of the tenth day after my fever started, I was finally able to walk down the hill to the library.

			When I pushed the front door open, I sensed a certain staleness of the air inside. Like a long-abandoned room, it seemed to lack any perceptible human presence. The fire in the stove had gone out, and the pot was cold. I lifted the lid to find whitish, cloudy coffee. The ceiling felt higher than before. The electric lights were off, and the only sound was the oddly dusty scraping of my shoes in the gloom. There was no sign of the librarian, and a thin layer of dust lay on the counter.

			I didn’t know what to do other than to sit on the wooden bench and wait for her to come. I was sure she would show up eventually: the door had been unlocked. I waited, shivering, in the cold. But my waiting did no good. She never came, and the darkness only deepened. I felt as if everything in the world had disappeared, leaving only the library and me—here at the End of the World. I could reach out, but my hand would never touch anything.

			The room had that same winter heaviness I had been feeling, as if everything in there had been nailed down to the floor or the table. Sitting alone in the darkness, I felt as if all parts of my body had lost their proper weight and were freely expanding and contracting—as if I were watching them in a distorted mirror while I moved them one at a time.

			I got up from the bench and twisted the light switch on. Then I scooped some chunks of coal from the pail and tossed them into the stove. I struck a match, lit the fire, and went back to the bench. The electric light only made the darkness feel deeper, and the lighted stove only increased the sensation of coldness.



* * *



			—

			Perhaps I sank too deeply into myself. Or perhaps a kind of numbness lingering in my body’s core lured me into a moment’s sleep. But when I opened my eyes, I found her standing there, calmly looking down at me. Coarse, yellow grains of light from the electric fixture struck her back, lending blurred shadows to the edges of her silhouette. I looked up at her for a time. She wore her usual blue coat and had her hair in a single bunch wound around to the front and tucked inside her collar. She gave off the scent of the winter wind.

			“I thought you might not come,” I said. “I’ve been waiting for you.”

			She dumped the old coffee in the sink, washed and filled the pot with fresh water, and set it on the stove. Then she pulled the hair out from her collar, took the coat off and hung it up.

			“Why did you think I wouldn’t come?” she asked.

			“I don’t know,” I said. “It was just a feeling.”

			“I’ll always come as long as you want me. You do want me, don’t you?”

			I nodded. I certainly did want her. I wanted her even if being with her only deepened my sense of loss.

			“I’d like you to tell me about your shadow,” I said. “Maybe it was your shadow I met in my old world.”

			“Yes, maybe. That’s what I thought at first when you said you might have met me before.”

			She sat by the stove and watched the fire for a while.

			“When I was four, my shadow was separated from me and sent to live outside the wall. So, it lived in the outside world and I lived in the inside world. I don’t know what she was doing out there, just as she didn’t know anything about me. She came back to the town and died here when I was seventeen. Shadows always come back when they are about to die. Gatekeeper buried mine in Apple Wood.”

			“And that made you a resident of the town once and for all?”

			“Yes, when my shadow was buried with what was left of my heart. You once told me that the heart is like the wind, but I think we might be even more like the wind. We just pass through without thinking, without aging, without dying.”

			“Did you meet your shadow when she came back?”

			She shook her head. “No, I felt there was no reason to do that. She and I were so totally separate.”

			“But she might have been you yourself.”

			“Yes, you may be right,” she said. “But either way, it’s all the same now. The circle is closed.”

			The pot on the stove began to boil, but to me it sounded like a distant wind.

			“Do you still want me even so?” she asked.

			“Yes,” I answered, “I still want you.”





17


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			End of the World, Charlie Parker, Time Bomb


			“Please,” the fat girl said. “If things go on like this, the world is going to end.”

			Let it end, I thought. The cut across my belly was hurting like the devil. A pair of feisty twin boys might as well have been using all four legs to kick the hell out of my imagination’s narrow framework.

			“What’s wrong with you? Are you sick?” she asked.

			Instead of answering, I took a deep breath and used the T-shirt by my side to wipe the sweat from my face.

			“Some guys came and made a six-centimeter slice in my belly,” I said, practically spitting out the words.

			“With a knife?”

			“Yeah. They broke me open like a piggy bank.”

			“Who would do such a terrible thing? And why?”

			“That’s what I’d like to know. I’ve been lying here wondering about it. Why is everybody using me for a doormat?”

			She shook her head.

			“I’ve been thinking maybe the two guys who did it are friends of yours.”

			She stared straight at me looking totally mystified.

			“How could you think that?”

			“I don’t know. I’ve gotta blame somebody. It feels better than not knowing.”

			“But it doesn’t solve a thing.”

			“No, it doesn’t solve a thing, but that’s not my fault. I didn’t start all this. Your grandfather’s the one who oiled the machine and threw the switch. I just got caught in the gears. Why do I have to be the one to solve it?”

			Another wave of intense pain hit me. Like a crossing guard, I shut up and waited for it to pass.

			“It’s been like that all day. First you call me early in the morning—your grandfather’s disappeared and you want me to help. So, I go to meet you and you don’t show up. I’m home sleeping, and two strange guys come and break my place apart and split me open with a knife. Next three guys from the System show up and grill the hell out of me. And now it’s you again. It’s like my day is following some sort of set schedule, and everybody’s playing their position on a basketball team. How much do you know about all this?”

			“Honestly, I don’t think I know much more than you do. I just help my grandfather with his research and follow his orders: do this do that, go there come here, make this call, write that letter. Like you, I have no idea what he’s trying to accomplish.”

			“But you’ve been assisting him in his research.”

			“ ‘Assisting’ by processing data and other technical matters, that’s all. I don’t have much specialized knowledge of the work, and I wouldn’t understand it if I heard or saw anything.”

			I tapped my front teeth with a fingernail, trying to get my thoughts straight. I needed a breakthrough. I’d have to unravel the situation a little more before the situation swallowed me completely.

			“Before, you said, ‘If things go on like this, the world is going to end.’ How is the world going to end, and why?”

			“I don’t know,” she said. “It’s what my grandfather said: ‘If something happens to me now, the world is going to end.’ He doesn’t joke about things like that. If he says the world is going to end, the world is really going to end. Really. The world is going to end.”

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “What could that possibly mean? Were those his exact words—‘The world is going to end’? He didn’t say ‘The world’s going to cease to exist’ or ‘The world’s going to be destroyed’?”

			“No, he said, ‘The world is going to end.’ ”

			Tapping my front teeth again, I thought some more about the end of the world.

			“So, then, what you seem to be saying is…the end of the world is somehow connected with me.”

			“Yes, I think so. My grandfather told me that you are the key, that he’s been focusing his research on you for some years now.”

			“Try to remember anything else he might have said. Was there anything about a time bomb?”

			“A time bomb?”

			“The guy who cut my belly said that. He said the data I processed for the Doctor was like a time bomb waiting to explode. What could that be about?”

			“I don’t know, but I can guess,” she said. “Everything starts with the shuffling system, I think. You know, my grandfather is the one who invented that, but ever since, he’s been doing research on human consciousness. Up until he developed the shuffling system, he used to tell me stuff—about his research, about what he was doing, about what he would be doing next, that kind of thing. Like I said before, I don’t have much specialized knowledge, but the things he told me were easy to understand and interesting. I used to love it when the two of us would talk.”

			“But he suddenly stopped telling you things after he perfected the shuffling system?”

			“Yes, he was always holed up in his underground lab, and he stopped talking about his work—even if I asked him about it. He’d just give me evasive answers.”

			“That must have made you sad.”

			“Yes. Very.” She looked at me. “Uh, mind if I get in bed? I’m feeling cold.”

			“As long as you don’t touch my cut or shake the bed,” I said. All the girls in the world were crawling into my bed, it seemed.

			She went around to the other side of the bed and slid in under the quilt, pink suit and all. I handed her one of the two pillows I had propped myself up on. She fluffed it with a few punches and laid her head on it. She was wearing the same melon fragrance she had on the nape of her neck the first time I had met her. With a great effort, I turned toward her, so we were facing each other in bed.

			“This is the closest I’ve ever been to a man,” she said.

			“Hmm,” I answered.

			“I’ve hardly ever been out on my own. That’s why I couldn’t make it to the place we were supposed to meet. I was about to ask you how to get there when the sound dropped out.”

			“A cab driver could have taken you there.”

			“I had hardly any money with me. I rushed out without thinking I might need money. So all I could do was walk.”

			“Don’t you have any other family?” I asked.

			“My parents and brothers all died in a traffic accident when I was six. A big truck rear-ended them and there was a gasoline fire. They all burned to death.”

			“But you were okay?”

			“I was in the hospital at the time. They were coming to visit me.”

			“I see,” I said.

			“I’ve been with my grandfather ever since. I’ve hardly been out of the house, never went to school, don’t have any friends…”

			“Never went to school?”

			“No, never,” she said matter-of-factly. “My grandfather said there was no need. He taught me all the subjects. From English and Russian to anatomy. My aunt taught me cooking and sewing and stuff.”

			“Your aunt?”

			“Well, she was a live-in housekeeper who did all the cleaning and housework. A wonderful lady. She died of cancer three years ago. It’s just been me and my grandfather ever since.”

			“And you really haven’t been to school since you were six years old?”

			“No, really. But it’s no big deal. I can do everything. I know four foreign languages, I can play piano and alto sax, I can put a walkie-talkie together, I’ve studied navigation and tightrope walking, and I’ve read a ton of books. I’ll bet you liked my sandwiches, too.”

			“True,” I said.

			“My grandfather says sixteen years of schooling just scrapes your gray matter away. He himself had almost no schooling.”

			“That’s impressive,” I said. “But aren’t you lonely, not having friends your own age?”

			“Hmm, I wonder. I’ve been too busy to think about such things. Besides, I probably wouldn’t have that much to talk about with people my own age, don’t you think?”

			She might have been right about that.

			“I’m very interested in you, though,” she said.

			“Me? Why?”

			“I don’t know, you seem kind of tired, but your tiredness gives you a kind of energy. I don’t know anybody else like that. My grandfather never gets tired, and neither do I. Are you really tired?”

			“I really am,” I said. I was tired enough to say it twenty times.

			“What’s it like to be tired?” she asked.

			“It’s when you lose the distinctions among different parts of your feelings: self-pity and anger toward others, pity for others and anger toward yourself. Things like that.”

			“I don’t really understand any of those things.”

			“In the end, you stop understanding everything. It’s like spinning a top that you’ve painted all different colors. The faster the top spins, the less you can distinguish one color from another, until they all blend together. You end up with chaos.”

			“Sounds interesting,” the fat girl said. “I’ll bet you know this stuff inside out.”

			“It’s true,” I said. I could explain the hundred different ways feeling tired could eat away at life or could bubble up from the core of life. This was another one of those things you couldn’t get them to teach you at school.

			“Can you play the alto sax?” she asked.

			“I cannot,” I said.

			“Do you have any Charlie Parker records?”

			“I think I still do, but there’s no way to find them now. And besides, my stereo is busted, so even if I could find one, we couldn’t listen to it.”

			“Can you play any instrument?”

			“Not a one.”

			“Do you mind if I touch you?” she asked.

			“Very much,” I said. “My cut might hurt like hell depending on the spot.”

			“Can I touch you after your cut heals?”

			“If the world hasn’t ended by then. Anyhow, let’s get back to the main topic. I think we had gotten as far as talking about how your grandfather’s personality changed after he perfected the shuffling system.”

			“Yes, that’s right. He became a different person after that—much less talkative, grumpy, talking to himself all the time.”

			“Can you remember anything he said about the shuffling system?”

			She gave some thought to this while toying with one of her gold earrings.

			“He said it’s the door to a new world. It was originally developed as a supplementary tool for reordering the data to be input into a computer, but depending on how it’s used, it might give a person the power to reorder the world itself, just as atomic physics gave birth to nuclear weapons.”

			“In other words, the door to a new world is the shuffling system and the key to the door is me?”

			“Isn’t that what we get when we put it all together?”

			I tapped my front teeth with my fingernail again. I felt like drinking a big glass of whiskey on the rocks, but both whiskey and ice had ceased to exist in my apartment.

			“Do you think it’s your grandfather’s purpose to bring the world to an end?” I asked.

			“No, not at all. True, he’s a difficult person, and self-centered, and he doesn’t like people, but basically he’s a really good person—like me, and like you.”

			“Well, thank you for that,” I said. No one had ever said such a thing to me before.

			“And what most frightened him was the possibility that his research would fall into the wrong hands and be used for evil purposes. So there’s no possibility he would use it for bad things himself. He resigned from the System precisely because he believed they would misuse the fruits of his research if he continued with it there. That’s when he decided to work on his own.”

			“But the System is on the world’s good side. They’re fighting against the Semiotec organization that steals information from computers and sells it to the black market. They’re protecting the rightful ownership of information.”

			She looked hard at me and shrugged. “I think my grandfather hasn’t been that concerned about who’s good and who’s bad. He said that good and evil are matters that belong to the basic level of human nature and have nothing to do with the question of ownership.”

			“Hmm, that may be true,” I said.

			“And he has never trusted any kind of authority. True, for a while he did belong to the System, but that was just a way for him to have free use of their abundant data and experimental materials and large-scale simulation machines. Once he had perfected his complex shuffling system, he said, it was a lot easier and more effective for him to carry out his research on his own. Once he had found his way to the shuffling system, the only operations left for him to perform were mental ones: he didn’t need a large organization’s facilities anymore.”

			“Wow,” I said. “Do you think he copied my individual data and took it with him when he quit the System?”

			“I don’t know,” she said. “But I suspect he could have done so if he wanted to. I mean, as the head of the System’s research section, he had total authority to keep and use data.”

			It was probably just as I had imagined. The Doctor had taken my individual data with him to use in his private research and was using me as the main sample in forging ahead with his shuffling theory. Everything made sense that way. As Tiny had said, the Doctor had called me in because he had reached the core of his research. He had given me some irrelevant data to process, and by having me shuffle it, he had induced my consciousness to react to a special code that he had concealed in it.

			If I was right about that, it meant my consciousness—or my unconscious—had already begun to react. Tiny had called it a time bomb. I did a rough calculation of the time that had passed since I finished shuffling. I had ended the job and awakened before midnight last night, so close to twenty-four hours had passed—a fair amount of time. I didn’t know when the time bomb had been set to explode, but its clock had already ticked off twenty-four hours.

			“I have one more question for you,” I said. “You used the expression ‘The world is going to end,’ right?”

			“Yes, that’s what my grandfather said.”

			“When did he say ‘The world is going to end’? Before he started his research on my data or after?”

			“After,” she said. “I’m pretty sure. He started saying exactly that—‘The world is going to end’—quite recently. Why? Is it connected with something?”

			“I don’t know any better than you do. But there’s one thing that bothers me. My shuffling password is a drama called End of the World. I can’t believe that’s a coincidence.”

			“What’s your End of the World about?”

			“I don’t know. It may be in my consciousness, but it’s hidden away in there someplace I can’t reach. All I know is that title phrase, End of the World.”

			“Can’t you retrieve it?”

			“No, that’s impossible. A whole army division couldn’t steal it from the System’s underground vault, the security’s so heavy and the locks are so specialized.”

			“But you think my grandfather got it out, taking advantage of his position?”

			“Probably, though I’m just guessing. I suspect the only way for me to learn any more would be to ask him in person.”

			“So, you’ll rescue him from the Murks?”

			I sat up in bed, keeping my hand pressed against my cut. The core of my head throbbed with pain.

			“I probably don’t have much choice in the matter,” I said. “I don’t know what your grandfather’s ‘End of the World’ means, but I can’t just let it go. If I don’t do something to put a stop to it, something awful is going to happen to somebody.” And I myself was probably that “somebody.”

			“So you have to help him!”

			“Because the three of us are such good people?”

			“Exactly,” the fat girl said.





18


			End of the World


			Dreamreader


			Still unable to gain a clear view of my own heart, I resumed my work of reading old dreams. With the winter deepening so relentlessly, I could not keep putting off the resumption of my duties. And at least while I was concentrating on the reading of dreams, I was able to forget my internal sense of loss, if only momentarily.

			On the other hand, the more old dreams I read, the greater the sense of helplessness that grew inside me in another form. The cause of that helpless feeling lay in my inability to understand the messages that the numerous old dreams I read were attempting to convey. I could read them but I couldn’t understand them. I might as well have spent day after day reading whole books without understanding what any of them meant. It was like watching a river’s water flow by every day. I would never end up anywhere. My reading skills constantly improved, but they were no help to me at all. The more expertly I worked my way through masses of old dreams, the more obvious became the emptiness of continuing the exercise. People can keep up any efforts that might be needed for the sake of progress, but progress was the very thing I was unable to accomplish.

			“I don’t understand what these old dreams mean,” I said to the librarian. “You once told me that reading old dreams from the skulls was meant to be my work, but the dreams just pass through me. I’ve never understood a single one, and the more I read, the more I feel that I myself am being worn away.”

			“And yet you keep reading them like one possessed. How can that be?”

			“I don’t know,” I said, shaking my head. True, for one thing, I concentrated on my work as a way to fill in my sense of loss, but I knew for certain that that was not my only reason for doing so. She was right: I did my dreamreading with the concentration of one possessed.

			“I think it’s because you have a problem you need to deal with.”

			“A problem?”

			“You have to open your heart more. I don’t really know about the heart, but I get the feeling that yours is locked tight. Just as the old dreams want you to read them, you yourself want to read the old dreams.”

			“Why do you think so?”

			“Because that’s what a Dreamreader does. Just as birds fly north or south when the season comes, the Dreamreader goes on reading dreams.”

			She reached across the table and laid her hand on top of mine. She looked at me and smiled. Her smile felt like soft spring sunlight breaking through the clouds.

			“Open your heart more. You’re not a prisoner. You’re a bird flying through the sky in search of dreams.”



* * *



			—

			Finally, though, all I could do was take each old dream in hand, one by one, and apply myself to it conscientiously. From the rows of old dreams lined up on the endless ranks of bookshelves, I would lift one and carry it to the table cradled in my arms. Then, with her help, I would wipe the dust and dirt from it with a slightly dampened rag, after which we would polish it for some time with dry rags until its surface shone as white as freshly fallen snow. Its wide-open, forward-facing eye sockets looked like a pair of bottomless wells.

			I would gently lay my hands over the top of the skull and wait for it to begin responding to the warmth of my body by giving off a trace of heat. When it reached a certain temperature—not very high, like the warmth of a pool of sunlight on a winter’s day—the polished white skull would begin to tell the story of the old dream engraved in it. I would close my eyes, take a deep breath, open my heart, and feel the story it was telling through my fingertips. The voice with which it told the story, however, was too faint, and the images it depicted seemed to float in a white haze like distant stars in a dawn sky. All that I was able to read from the skulls were a number of uncertain fragments, and, try as I might to piece those fragments together, I couldn’t grasp a picture of the whole.

			In the flow of images were landscapes I had never seen before, music I had never heard before, and words being whispered that I could not understand. They would rise up suddenly and just as suddenly sink into darkness. Any one image had nothing in common with the image that followed it. It was like spinning a radio dial from one station to the next. I tried different means of concentrating my attention on the flow through my fingertips, but always with the same result. I could tell that the old dreams were trying to tell me stories, but I could never read them as stories.

			Perhaps there was something wrong with the way I was reading. Or perhaps their words had become weathered and worn away over the years. Or then again, perhaps there were decisive temporal or contextual differences between their concept of a story and mine.

			In any case, all I could do was stare wordlessly and steadily at the multifarious images that kept appearing and disappearing. Among them, of course, were a few ordinary scenes of the kind I was accustomed to seeing: green grass stirring in the breeze, white clouds crossing the sky, sunlight flickering on a river. But those unremarkable landscapes filled my heart with a strange, inexpressible kind of sorrow. For the life of me, I could not understand where in those views there could be elements hidden that aroused such sorrow. Like ships passing outside a window, they would first appear and then disappear without a trace.

			This would continue for some ten minutes, after which the old dream would begin gradually to lose its warmth, like the tide going out, until it had once again become another chilly white skull. The old dream would have reverted to its long slumber, and all the water in the images would drain from my fingertips to the ground. My dreamreading was an endless repetition of this procedure.

			When an old dream had lost all its warmth, I would hand it to her and she would place it in the line of skulls on the counter. While she was doing that, I would rest with my hands on the table and let my keyed-up nerves unravel. The best I could read was five or six old dreams a day. If I exceeded that number, my powers of concentration would become skewed and my fingertips would be unable to read anything more than a faint hum. By the time the hands of the room’s clock were pointing to eleven, I felt thoroughly wrung out and could hardly get up from my chair.

			She always brewed me a hot cup of coffee at the end. Sometimes she would bring me something she had baked at home that day for a light nighttime snack—cookies or fruit bread. We would sit across from each other at the table, drinking our coffee and saying almost nothing as we munched on our bread or cookies. Exhausted, I could hardly speak for a while, and she would join me in silence.

			“Is it my fault your heart won’t open?” she once asked me. “Could it be that your heart is shut tight because I can’t respond to it?” As always, we were sitting on the stairway that led down from the middle of the Old Bridge to the sandbar, looking at the river. On the surface of the water trembled a tiny fragment of the chilly white moon. A narrow wooden boat that someone had tied to a stake in the sandbar subtly changed the sound of the water. We sat side by side on a narrow step, her warmth against my shoulder. How strange, I thought: people liked to speak figuratively of the heart’s warmth, but the warmth of the heart and the warmth of the body were in no way connected.

			“No, it’s not your fault,” I said. “It’s my own problem that my heart doesn’t open. I’m confused because I can’t see into my own heart.”

			“Is that what the heart is like? That even you can’t understand it?”

			“In some cases,” I said. “Sometimes you can’t understand your own heart until much later—by which time it’s too late. A lot of times, we have to choose our actions while we’re still unable to see into our hearts, and that confuses everybody.”

			“Sometimes I can’t help thinking that the heart must be a very imperfect thing,” she said with a smile.

			I took my hands out of my pockets and stared at them in the moonlight. Bathed in that white light, they looked like a pair of sculptures completed in their little world with nowhere to go.

			“I think so, too,” I said. “It’s a very imperfect thing. But it leaves marks that we can retrace, like following footsteps in the snow.”

			“Do they lead somewhere?”

			“To me myself,” I answered. “The heart is like that. If you don’t have one, you can’t end up anywhere.”

			I looked up at the moon. Emitting an incongruously brilliant light, it floated in the sky above the town surrounded by the high wall.

			“Not one thing is your fault,” I assured her.





19


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Hamburger, Deadline


			We decided to fortify ourselves with a meal somewhere before embarking on our mission. I myself had almost no appetite, but there was no telling when we’d have a chance to eat again. I might be able to get something like a hamburger and beer into my stomach, and the girl said she was starved. She hadn’t had anything since eating a chocolate bar for lunch. It was all she had been able to afford with the few coins she had.

			Taking care not to irritate my cut, I eased my legs into a pair of jeans, and over my T-shirt put on a sport shirt and a light sweater. I also pulled a nylon windbreaker from my dresser just in case. Her pink suit was obviously the wrong thing to be wearing for a subterranean search party, but unfortunately my wardrobe contained neither shirts nor pants that would fit her. I was a good ten centimeters taller than she was, and she probably outweighed me by ten kilograms. Ideally, we would have gone shopping for clothing more suited to action, but there wouldn’t have been any stores open in the middle of the night. I was able to supply her with a thick old U.S. Army surplus combat jacket of mine that she could squeeze into, but the problem was her high heels. She had running shoes and rubber boots in her office, she said.

			“Pink running shoes and pink boots.”

			“I guess you like pink?”

			“My grandfather does. He says pink outfits become me very well.”

			“They do,” I said, which was the truth. They really did become her. Usually when a fat woman wears pink, she’ll have this unfocused look, like a huge strawberry shortcake, but in this girl’s case, for some reason, the color suited her perfectly.

			“Your grandfather likes heavy girls, too, I’ll bet,” I said by way of checking.

			“Yes, of course,” the pink girl said. “That’s why I’m always careful to keep my weight up. If I neglect my diet, I lose weight like crazy. I always make sure to eat a lot of butter and cream and stuff.”

			“Wow,” I said.

			I slid open the bedroom closet door, pulled out a backpack, and after checking to see it hadn’t been shredded like the quilts, I stuffed in our two jackets, a pocket flashlight, a magnet, gloves, a towel, a big knife, a cigarette lighter, a rope, and a can of Sterno. Next, I went to the kitchen and, from among the food scattered on the floor, I loaded in two pieces of bread and cans of corned beef, peaches, wieners, and grapefruit. Then I filled my water bottle. Finally, I filled my pants pockets with all the cash I had lying around the apartment.

			“It’s like we’re going on a picnic,” she said.

			“Absolutely.”

			Before we left, I stood in the doorway and took one last look at my apartment, which had been reduced to a collection depot for old appliances. The conduct of life was always the same: building it up took lots of time, but destroying it could be accomplished in an instant. Tired though I was from it, the life I had been living in these three small rooms had given me some satisfaction. The whole thing had vanished like morning mist in the time it took to empty a couple of cans of beer. My job, my whiskey collection, my peace and quiet, my solitude, my John Ford collection—all had been transformed into meaningless garbage.

			“ ‘Of splendour in the grass, of glory in the flower,’ ” I recited soundlessly to myself. Then I reached out to the circuit-breaker box in the entryway and pulled the switch down, cutting the apartment’s electricity.



* * *



			—

			 				The slash on my belly was hurting me too much for deep thought, and I was too exhausted, so I made a conscious decision not to think about anything. Rather than busy my brain with half-baked ideas, better to have no ideas at all. Without hesitation, I led her onto the elevator, went down to the garage, unlocked the car, and tossed the backpack into the rear seat. If we were being watched, let them watch us. If they were going to tail us, fine, let them. I didn’t give a damn anymore. First of all, who was it I had to be on the lookout for—the Semiotecs? The System? The two guys who had cut me? There was no way I could make clever moves for all three at once. Sleep deprived, gashed in the stomach, and with the fat girl in tow, I had all I could do to face the Murks in the underground darkness. If they wanted to do something to me, let them.

			I didn’t want to drive if I didn’t have to, but the girl said she didn’t know how.

			“I’m sorry,” she said. “Horseback riding is my thing.”

			“That’s okay,” I said. “We might have to get on horses before we’re through.”

			I checked to see we had plenty of gas and headed out of the garage, through the winding neighborhood streets and out to a main road. There was lots of traffic, even in the middle of the night—half taxis, and the rest trucks and cars. I couldn’t imagine why so many people had to be out running around town at a time like this. Why didn’t they all just quit work at six, go home, get in bed before ten, turn off the lights, and go to sleep?

			But that was their problem. Whatever thoughts I might have on the matter, the world would keep expanding according to its rules: the Arabs would keep pumping oil, people would keep using it to make electricity and gasoline, and they would keep pursuing their desires on the nighttime streets. All I had to do was solve the problems that were facing me now.

			Hands on the steering wheel, I yawned hugely while waiting for the light to change.

			Waiting in front of me was an oversized truck with a towering pile of paper bundles. To my right was a white Skyline sports car with a young couple in the front seat and Duran Duran blasting from the stereo. I couldn’t tell whether they were on the way to or from some nighttime entertainment, but they both looked bored. The woman wore two silver bracelets on her left arm resting on her windowsill. She glanced at me, not because she had any interest in me but because she had nothing else to look at. A Denny’s billboard, a traffic sign, my face: it made no difference. I glanced back at her. She was fairly good-looking but had the kind of face you see anywhere. In a TV drama, she could have been the friend who asks the female lead, “What’s wrong? You seem so down in the dumps lately.” She appears only once, and after she disappears from the screen, you can’t remember what she looked like.

			The light changed to green, and while the big truck ahead of me struggled to get started, the white Skyline roared out of view, taking Duran Duran with it.

			“Can you keep an eye on the cars behind us?” I asked the fat girl. “Let me know if anybody seems to be following us.”

			She nodded and looked back.

			“Do you think someone’s going to follow us?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. “But we’d better be careful. Are you okay with a burger? That’d be quick.”

			“I’m fine with anything.”

			I pulled into the first drive-in burger shop I saw. A waitress in a short red dress fastened trays to our two windows and asked for our order.

			“I’d like a double cheeseburger with fries and a cup of hot chocolate,” the fat girl said.

			“A plain burger and a beer for me,” I said.

			“I’m sorry, sir, we don’t serve beer,” the waitress said.

			“Okay, a plain burger and a cola,” I said. How could I have expected a burger drive-in to have beer?

			While we waited for our order to arrive, I watched for any cars that might drive in after us, but none did. Of course, if anyone were seriously trying to tail us, they probably wouldn’t have pulled into the same parking lot. They would have parked somewhere inconspicuous and waited for us to pull out. I gave up keeping guard and mechanically downed the burger and chips and the one skimpy lettuce leaf and cola they brought me. The fat girl took time to lovingly ingest her cheeseburger, plucking one french fry at a time from her serving, and sipping her hot chocolate.

			“Have some fries?” she asked.

			“No, thanks,” I answered.

			The girl finished every morsel on her plate and followed it with her last sip of hot chocolate. Then she sucked her fingers clean of the ketchup and mustard clinging to them and wiped them down with a paper napkin. She was obviously in heaven.

			“Now, about your grandfather,” I said. “I’d say we ought to go to his underground lab first thing.”

			“I think so, too. We might find a clue there. And I’ll help.”

			“But do you think we can slip past the Murks’ den? Hasn’t the Murk repeller been destroyed?”

			“Don’t worry, I’ve got a miniature model with me for emergencies. It’s not very powerful but if you have one on you when you walk through there, it’ll keep them away from your immediate surroundings.”

			“Oh, so no problem,” I said, relieved.

			“It’s not that easy,” she said. “The portable version only has enough battery capacity to work continuously for thirty minutes. You have to switch it off and recharge it after thirty minutes.”

			“Oh,” I said. “How long does a full charge take?”

			“Fifteen minutes. Thirty minutes on, fifteen minutes off. Enough to go from the office to the lab and back.”

			I stopped asking questions. It would be better than nothing. We’d have to make do with what we had. I pulled out of the hamburger drive-in and bought two cans of beer and a pocket-sized bottle of whiskey at an all-night supermarket I found on the way, drinking both beers and a quarter of the whiskey before we hit the road again. That seemed to help somewhat. I screwed the cap on the remaining whiskey and had her slip the bottle into the backpack.

			“Why do you have to drink so much?” she asked.

			“Probably because I’m scared,” I said.

			“I’m scared, too, but you don’t see me drinking.”

			“That’s because your ‘scared’ and my ‘scared’ are two different things.”

			“I don’t understand,” she said.

			“The older you get, the more things you can’t undo,” I said.

			“Like, you get tired?”

			“Right,” I said. “You get tired.”

			She reached over and touched my earlobe. “Don’t worry, I’ll be with you all the way.”

			“Thanks a lot,” I said.



* * *



			—

			I parked the car in the building where her grandfather’s office was located, got out, and put the backpack on. My cut was giving me a dull pain off and on as if a loaded hay wagon were rolling slowly across my stomach. I tried telling myself it was nothing but a superficial pain that had nothing to do with the essential me. Like rain, it would pass eventually. I scraped together any bits of self-respect I had left, swept away thoughts of the cut, and hurried after the girl.

			The well-built young security guard at the front desk asked for her building ID and slipped the plastic card she handed him into his computer. Satisfied with the name and room number that came up on his monitor, he pressed a button and let us in.

			“This is a very special building,” she said as we cut across the spacious floor. “All the tenants are here for the security system: they have secrets that need to be protected, like, they’re carrying out important research or they hold secret meetings here or something. Everybody has to show an ID at the entrance, and security cameras check to make sure people go only where they’re supposed to go once they’re let in. So, if anybody tailed us this far, they won’t be able to get in.”

			“Do the people in charge know your grandfather built a shaft that goes underground?”

			“Hmm, I wonder. Probably not. He had it designed in when they built the building, but only a handful of people know about it—just the owners and the architect. The builders were told it was for drainage, and the blueprints left it vague.”

			“It must have cost a fortune, though.”

			“True, but my grandfather has plenty of money,” she said. “And so do I. I’m really rich. I grew my inheritance and the insurance money on the stock market.”

			She took a key from her pocket and opened the doors to that oversized elevator I had taken before. As we stepped in, I asked, “The stock market?”

			“Yes, my grandfather taught me how to make money in stocks—how to choose information sources, how to read market conditions, how to dodge taxes, how to send money to overseas banks—that kind of stuff. Playing the stock market is fun. Have you ever done it?”

			“Unfortunately, no,” I said. I had never even opened a CD.

			“My grandfather was a stockbroker before he became a scientist, but he quit because he was making too much money. Amazing, don’t you think?”

			“Amazing.”

			“Grandfather is the best at anything he does,” she said.

			As before, the elevator was moving so slowly, I couldn’t tell whether it was going up or down, and it was taking an awfully long time to get there. It made me uneasy to think I was being observed by a security camera the whole time.

			“My grandfather has always said that school education is too inefficient to make a person first-rate, but what do you think?”

			“Hmm, it’s probably true,” I said. “I went to school for sixteen years, but I don’t think it did me any good. I don’t know any languages, I can’t play an instrument, I don’t know anything about stocks, and I can’t ride a horse.”

			“So why didn’t you quit? You could have quit school anytime you wanted to, couldn’t you have?”

			“Hmm, I’m not so sure,” I said and gave it some thought. She was probably right. “It just never occurred to me at the time. Unlike yours, my family was totally ordinary, and I never thought I could become first-rate in any field.”

			“You’re wrong about that,” she said. “Everybody has at least one quality they can be first-rate in. But people who don’t know how to bring out the best in people gang up on them and squash it out of them, so most people can’t become first-rate.”

			“Like me, you mean,” I said.

			“No, you’re different. You’ve got something special about you. You have such a hard emotional shell, there’s a lot left inside you untouched.”

			“Emotional shell?”

			“You heard me,” she said. “So, it’s not too late even now. What do you say, want to live with me when this is over? I don’t mean get married or anything, just live together. Go to some easygoing place—Greece or Romania or Finland—and ride horses and sing songs and hang out. I have all the money we’d need, and you can be reborn as a first-rate human being.”

			“Wow,” I said.

			We stepped off the elevator and I followed after her as I had the first time, she hurrying down the corridor with her high heels clicking. Her delightfully shaped bottom swayed before me, and her golden earrings sparkled.

			“Even supposing for a moment that we were able to do such a thing,” I called to her back, “you’d just be giving and giving to me while I couldn’t give anything to you. That strikes me as unfair and unnatural.”

			She slowed her pace until she was walking next to me.

			“I’m sure you do have something you could give me,” she said.

			“Like what?”

			“Like—your emotional shell. I’m dying to learn about it—how it was made, how it functions, stuff like that. I’m tremendously interested, because I haven’t had much to do with anything like it.”

			“It’s no big deal,” I said. “Everybody wears a shell over their emotions to some extent. You haven’t been out in the world much, so you can’t understand ordinary people’s ordinary feelings. That’s all it is.”

			“You really don’t know anything, do you?” the fat girl said. “You have the ability to do shuffling, don’t you?”

			“Of course I do. But that’s just a skill you get through practice, like learning to do calculations on the abacus or playing the piano.”

			“Not necessarily,” she said. “Everybody thought that at first—that anybody can learn to do shuffling if they have the right training, or at least all the ones who had passed the screening tests could be trained to do it. Even my grandfather believed that. So they gave the same surgery and training you had to twenty-six men and gave them the ability to do shuffling. It all worked perfectly at the time, but problems came up later.”

			“That’s news to me,” I said. “I was told that everything went according to plan.”

			“Officially, yes. But not in fact. Of the twenty-six men who were given the ability to do shuffling, twenty-five died within a year or a year and a half of the end of their training. You’re the only one still alive. You’re the only one who has survived over three years and continues to perform shuffling with no problem. Do you still think you’re just an ordinary human being? You’re one of the most important people in the world now.”

			Hands thrust into my pockets, I continued to walk down the corridor in silence. Now this was going way beyond a question of my individual abilities and was expanding like crazy. I had no idea how far it was going to go or where it would end up.

			“Why did they all die?” I asked her.

			“We don’t know. It’s not clear what killed them. We do know they died from a brain dysfunction, but what caused it is unclear.”

			“There must be a theory, isn’t there?”

			“Yes, and here’s what my grandfather told me. Ordinary people probably can’t tolerate having their mental core irradiated, so their brain cells try to make some sort of antibodies in response, but that response is so extreme it kills them. It’s actually more complicated than that, but that’s a simple way to explain it.”

			“Then, what’s the reason I’m still alive?”

			“You probably already had the antibodies naturally. In the form of that emotional shell I’m talking about. They were there in your brain for some reason and enabled you to survive. My grandfather tried to protect the others’ brains by creating a shell artificially, but those artificial shells must have been too weak.”

			I gave this some thought and asked, “So these antibodies or protector or shell or whatever are some sort of innate quality of mine?”

			“Part innate, part acquired, maybe? My grandfather wouldn’t tell me any more than that. He said it could be dangerous for me to know too much. Extrapolating from his theory, though, people like you who have the natural antibodies are possibly one in a million or one in a million and a half, and the only way to find them would be to actually endow them with shuffling ability.”

			“So if his theory is correct, it was a total fluke that I was one of only twenty-six.”

			“Which is what makes you such a valuable sample. You’re the key.”

			“What was your grandfather trying to do with me? What’s the meaning of the data he had me shuffle and the unicorn skull he gave me?”

			“If I knew the answer to that, I could save you right away,” she said.

			“Me and the world both,” I said.



* * *



			—

			Like my apartment—if not quite to the same degree—the office had been ransacked. All kinds of documents had been scattered over the floor, the desk turned upside down, the safe pried open, the dresser drawers thrown everywhere, the sofa bed slashed and on top of it scattered the change of clothes the Doctor and the girl had been keeping in a locker. Her clothing was indeed all pink, in shades ranging from saturated to pale.

			“How terrible!” she said, shaking her head. “They probably came up from underground.”

			“You mean the Murks?”

			“No, they would never come up to the surface like this. Or if they did, their smell would still be here.”

			“Their smell?”

			“A fishy, muddy, awful smell. No, the Murks didn’t do this. Maybe it was the same people who messed up your apartment.”

			“Maybe so,” I said, surveying the damage. In front of the overturned desk, a whole box’s worth of paper clips lay glinting in the fluorescent light. Paper clips had been getting on my nerves for a while now, so I pretended to check what else was on the floor, grabbing a fistful of paper clips and shoving them into my pocket.

			“Were you keeping important stuff here?” I asked.

			“No, not really,” she said. “Some ledgers and receipts, some unimportant research materials, almost nothing we couldn’t afford to have stolen.”

			“How about the transmitter for repelling Murks?”

			She sifted through the assorted pile of junk in front of the locker—flashlights, a boom box, an alarm clock, tape dispensers, a can of cough drops—and from it extracted a small device that looked like a VU meter, which she turned on and off a few times.

			“It’s all right, it’s working,” she said. “They probably thought it was a useless gizmo. And it’s such a simple device, even if it got knocked around a little bit, it doesn’t break that easily.”

			She went to the corner, knelt on the floor, uncapped a covered outlet, and flipped a small switch inside. Then she stood and softly pressed her palm against a section of wall. A panel the size of a phone book opened, revealing what looked like a safe.

			“See? They could never find this,” she said proudly. Then she adjusted four numbers and opened the safe door. “Can I ask you to take everything out and arrange it on the desk?”

			Gritting my teeth with the pain of my cut, I set the overturned desk upright and lined up the items from the safe on it: a five-centimeter-thick bundle of savings-bank passbooks in a rubber band, an assortment of stock and other certificates, two or three million yen in cash, a heavy object in a cloth bag, a black leather notebook, and a manila envelope. She emptied the manila envelope’s contents onto the desk: an old Omega wristwatch and a gold ring. The watch crystal was riddled with tiny cracks and the body was blackened.

			“It was my father’s watch. And the ring was my mother’s. Everything else was lost in the fire.”

			I nodded as she put the ring and watch back into the envelope. Then she took a fistful of bills and stuffed them into her suit pocket. “I totally forgot we had money in here,” she said. Next, she opened the cloth bag and took out something wrapped in an old shirt, which she opened to show me what was inside. It was a small automatic pistol. Judging from its signs of wear, this was no toy model but a real gun that could shoot real bullets. I don’t know much about guns, but it was obviously a good one—a Browning or a Beretta, something I’d seen in a movie. It had a spare clip and a box of cartridges.

			“Are you good with a gun?” she asked.

			“No way,” I said, startled. “I’ve never even held one.”

			“I’m a good shot,” she said. “I’ve had years of practice. I used to shoot by myself in the hills when we went to our cabin up in Hokkaido. I can hit a target the size of a postcard from ten meters away. Pretty impressive, huh?”

			“You bet,” I said. “Where’d you get something like that, though?”

			“Don’t be silly,” she said. “You can get anything if you’ve got money. Didn’t you know that? Anyway, I’ll carry this, since you don’t know how to use it. Okay?”

			“Feel free,” I said. “But it’s dark down there—don’t shoot me by mistake. I don’t think I could stay on my feet if I had any more wounds.”

			“Don’t worry, I’ll be very careful,” she said, and slipped the pistol into her right jacket pocket. Strange, her suit never bulged or lost its shape no matter how much she stuffed into the pockets. Maybe it had some special compartments or was just well tailored.

			Next she opened the black leather notebook to a middle page and stared at it under the light for a long time, looking very serious. I took a quick glance at the page, but it was filled with lines of alphanumeric-codelike signs I couldn’t make any sense of.

			“This is my grandfather’s notebook,” she said. “It’s in a code that only he and I can understand. We write our plans or memos of the day’s events and things. He told me to check the notebook if anything happened to him. Now, wait just a second…You finished the data brain wash on September twenty-ninth, didn’t you?”

			“Exactly,” I said.

			“That’s marked with a one here, probably meaning it was the first step. And then you completed the shuffling on the night of the thirtieth or the morning of October first, right?”

			“Right.”

			“That’s marked two. Step two. Next, let me see, is noon on October second. That’s three. It says, ‘Terminate program.’ ”

			“I was supposed to meet the Doctor at noon on the second. He was probably planning to undo the special program he had installed inside me. To prevent the world from ending, I’d guess. But the situation changed. He might have been killed or kidnapped. That’s the number-one problem we face.”

			“Wait just a second. Let me look ahead here. The code is tremendously complicated.”

			While she was examining the notebook, I rearranged the contents of the backpack and put new batteries in the flashlights. The rain slickers and rubber boots that had been in the locker were now lying all over the floor but, fortunately, they had not been damaged to the point of unusability. If I had to duck under the waterfall without a rain slicker, I’d get soaked and chilled to the bone, and if that happened, my wound would start hurting again. The next thing I did was pick her pink running shoes up from where they had been scattered on the floor and load them into the backpack. The digital readout of my wristwatch was nearing midnight, which meant I had exactly twelve hours until the deadline for terminating the program.

			“After that come a lot of technical calculations—amperage and dissolution rates and resistance values and errors—stuff I don’t understand at all.”

			“So skip over those. We don’t have much time,” I said. “Just decode what you can make out.”

			“There’s no need to decode anything.”

			“Why’s that?”

			She handed me the notebook with her finger pointing to one spot. There were no codes on the page, just a huge X along with a date and time. Compared with the surrounding neat rows of figures so tiny you needed a magnifying glass to read them, the X was so big and out of proportion that it gave an ominous impression.





			“I wonder if this marks the deadline?” she said.

			“Maybe so. It’s probably step four. If the program is terminated at three, this X won’t happen. But if, for some reason, it’s not terminated, I’m pretty sure the program will forge ahead and reach the X.”

			“So that means we absolutely have to get to my grandfather by noon on the second.”

			“Yes, if my guess is right.”

			“I wonder if it is.”

			“It probably is,” I murmured.

			“Then how many hours do we have left until the End of the World or the Big Bang or whatever it is?”

			“Thirty-six,” I said. I didn’t have to check my watch. One and a half rotations of the earth on its axis. Two morning papers and one evening edition. Two rings of the alarm clock. Two shaves. That’s what happens in thirty-six hours. 1/17033 of a seventy-year life. And after thirty-six hours passed, something—probably the end of the world—would be coming.

			“What should we do?” she asked.

			I found some pain pills in the first-aid box on the floor in front of the locker, washed them down with water from my bottle, and slung the backpack over my shoulder.

			“The only thing we can do—head underground.”





20


			End of the World


			Deaths of the Beasts


			The beasts had already lost several members of the herd. The morning after the first real all-night snowfall, several of the old ones, their golden coats largely transformed to winter white, lay on the ground in a five-centimeter blanket of snow. The morning sun shone through the torn clouds, adding brilliant highlights to the frozen scene. The breaths of more than a thousand beasts danced whitely in the sunlight.

			I woke before dawn to find the whole town enveloped in white. It was a marvelous view, with the black clock tower soaring over the all-white landscape and the dark band of the river. The sun was not up yet, and the sky was covered by a thick layer of cloud. I put on my coat and gloves and walked down the deserted road into the town. The snow had started falling soundlessly just after I went to bed and seemed to have stopped just before I woke up. It was unmarked by footprints. I scooped up a handful. It was as soft and dry as powdered sugar. A thin crust of ice, dotted here and there with snow, lay along the banks of the river.

			My white breath was the only thing moving in the town. There was no wind, and I could see no birds. The crunching of my boots on the snow echoed among the stone walls of the town’s houses as loudly as an artificially boosted sound effect.

			Nearing the gate, I caught sight of Gatekeeper in front of the square. He had crawled under the wagon I had once seen him repairing with my shadow and was oiling the wheels. Inside the wagon, several ceramic jars holding rapeseed oil were lashed against the side planks to keep them from spilling. I couldn’t help wondering what Gatekeeper planned to do with so much oil.

			Gatekeeper poked his head out from under the wagon and waved to me in apparent good spirits.

			“What brings you out so early in the morning?” he asked.

			“I’m here to see the snow,” I said. “It looked very pretty from up on the hill.”

			He laughed aloud and put his big hand on my back as always. He was not even wearing gloves.

			“You’re an odd one,” he said. “You’ll be sick of all the snowscapes to be seen from now on. Funny you should walk all the way down here to have a look. Yes, for sure, you’re an odd one.”

			He stood there looking toward the gate, releasing a big, white cloud of breath like a steam engine.

			“You came here at a perfect time, though,” he said. “Climb up the watchtower. You can see something interesting. A winter first. Watch what happens outside when I blow my ram’s horn.”

			“A first?”

			“Just watch. You’ll see what I mean.”

			Mystified, I climbed the watchtower by the gate and gazed at the scene outside. The snow piled atop Apple Wood to the northwest looked as if a cloud had settled on the trees. Far past the eastern end of town, North Ridge and East Ridge rose almost entirely white with only a few scarlike outcroppings of boulders in rows.

			Beasts were sound asleep at the base of the watchtower as always, legs folded beneath them on the ground, their pure white horns thrust into the white of the snow. A layer of snow covered their backs, but they seemed unaware of it in their terribly deep sleep.

			Bit by bit, the clouds overhead began to part, and the sunlight sparkled on the earth, but I just stood there in the watchtower, observing the surrounding scenery. Like spotlights, the sunlight caught only scattered patches, but I wanted to see for myself the “something interesting” that Gatekeeper had promised.

			Eventually, he opened the gate and blew the usual pattern on the ram’s horn: one long and three short blasts. The beasts opened their eyes at the first note and raised their heads, looking toward the source of the sound. Judging from the volume of their white breath, their bodies had begun the new day’s activity. The beasts hardly breathed at all when they were sleeping.

			Once the last note of the horn had faded into the air, the beasts stood up. First, they stretched their forelegs as if testing them, then raised their bodies and stretched their rear legs. They jabbed their horns into the air and shook the snow on their backs to the ground as if they had finally noticed it was there, after which they began walking toward the gate. Once they were inside, I could see what Gatekeeper had been intending to show me. Several of the beasts who had appeared to be sleeping remained where they were on the ground, frozen to death. They looked less as though they had died than as though they were thinking deeply about some kind of important proposition. But no answer existed to such questioning. No streams of breath arose from their nostrils or mouths. Their bodies had ceased all activity, their awareness absorbed into a deep darkness.

			The corpses of the few beasts that had died remained like tiny nodules that had formed on the earth, enveloped in white shrouds. Only their single horns remained thrusting into the air with strange vividness. When the surviving beasts had passed them by, some of those had hung their heads low while others had made little clicks with their hooves as a sign of mourning.

			I kept my watch on the hushed corpses while the sun rose into the sky and the shadow of the wall withdrew across the ground, the sunlight melting the snow on the earth. I couldn’t shake the feeling that the morning sun would even melt away their deaths, and the beasts who had appeared to be dead would get to their feet and join the morning procession.

			Instead of standing, however, they lay there as their golden hairs, wet in the snowmelt, gleamed in the sunlight. Soon my eyes began to hurt.

			I climbed down from the watchtower, crossed the river, and walked up the slope to my room on West Hill. Once there, I realized that the morning light had been hurting my eyes far more intensely than I had noticed. The tears came pouring out of my closed eyes, and I could hear the drops pattering down on my knees. I tried washing my eyes with cold water to no avail. I closed the window’s heavy curtains and, eyes tightly closed, I spent hours watching the strangely shaped lines and figures that floated up and vanished in the depthless darkness.

			The Colonel knocked on my door at ten o’clock with coffee on a tray. When he found me on my stomach in bed, he patted my eyelids with a cold towel. I felt a throbbing pain behind my ears, but the tears seemed to have subsided a little.

			“What happened to you?” he asked. “The morning light is a lot stronger than you think—especially on snowy mornings. You should know that the Dreamreader’s eyes can’t take strong light. Why did you go out, of all things?”

			“I went to see the beasts,” I said. “A lot of them were dead—eight or nine of them, maybe more.”

			“A lot more of them will die from now on. Every time it snows.”

			“Why do they die so easily?”

			Lying on my back, I lifted the towel from my face to talk to the old man.

			“They can’t take the cold. Or starvation. They’ve always been like that.”

			“But they haven’t died out?”

			The old man shook his head. “They’ve lived here—and will surely continue to live here—for tens of thousands of years. A lot of them die in the winter, but many young are born in the spring. It’s just a matter of new life pushing out the old. Only a limited number of beasts can survive on nothing but the plants that grow in the town.”

			“Why don’t they move somewhere else? They’d have all the trees they wanted if they lived in the Forest, or they wouldn’t have so much snow if they moved south. I doubt they have to cling to this place.”

			“I don’t know any better than you do,” the old man said. “But they can’t leave this town. They’re part of it. They’re held here—the same as you and me. They know by their own special instincts that they can never get out of this town. Maybe they can only eat the trees and grass that grow here. Or maybe they can’t get past the limestone wilderness that stretches southward. In any case, they can’t leave here.”

			“What happens to their corpses?”

			“He burns them. Gatekeeper burns them,” the old man answered as he warmed his big, rough hands on his coffee cup. “That’ll be his main job for a while now. First, he cuts the dead ones’ heads off, scoops out the brains and eyes, and boils them in a big pot to clean the skulls. He piles up the bodies, douses them with rapeseed oil, and sets them on fire.”

			“So then the skulls are filled with old dreams and lined up on shelves in the library?” I asked the old man with my eyes shut tight. “Why is that? And why skulls?”

			The old man did not answer my questions. All I heard was the creaking of the floor as he walked away, slowly, from the bed to the window, where the creaking stopped. Then, for a time, there was silence.

			“You’ll learn the answers on the day you come to understand what the old dreams are,” the Colonel said. “Why are the old dreams contained in skulls? I can’t tell you that. You’re the Dreamreader. You have to find that out for yourself.”

			I toweled away my tears and opened my eyes. Standing by the window, the old man was a blur to me.

			“Many things will become clear as the winter progresses,” he continued. “Like it or not, that’s how it is. The snow will keep falling and the beasts will keep dying. No one can put a stop to either. You’ll see the gray smoke rising in the afternoons when Gatekeeper burns the beasts. Day after day through the winter. White snow and gray smoke.”





21


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Bracelets, Ben Johnson, Devil


			The closet led to the same wide-open dark space I had seen the first time, but now that I knew about the existence of the Murks, it felt far deeper and chillier than before. Such a perfect darkness would have been impossible to encounter anywhere else. The world must have been filled with this kind of suffocating darkness until cities stripped it from the earth using streetlamps and neon lights and illuminated show windows.

			She climbed down the ladder first, her rubber boots squeaking on the rungs as she descended swiftly into the darkness alone, the Murk repeller stuffed into the deep pocket of her rain slicker, the strap of her large flashlight slung diagonally across her body. “It’s all right, come down now,” she called from below after some minutes, her voice mixing with the sound of the river. I saw the yellow light waving below. The bottom of the abyss was much farther down than I recalled. I shoved my flashlight into my pocket and started down the ladder. I had to take care not to slip on the always wet rungs. All the way down, I was thinking about the young couple in the Nissan Skyline and their Duran Duran tune. They had no idea I was climbing down into the darkness with a flashlight and a big knife in my pockets and a gash across my belly. All they had in their heads were the figures on the speedometer, the anticipation or memory of sex, and an innocuous pop tune that was going up and down the charts. Not that I could blame them for not knowing what they couldn’t know.

			If I hadn’t known about any of this, I wouldn’t have had to be doing it. I imagined myself racing around the nighttime city behind the wheel of the Skyline, the girl next to me, Duran Duran playing. I wondered if the girl took the narrow silver bracelets off her left arm when she was having sex. Better if she didn’t, I thought. They should stay on her wrist like a part of her body even after she took all her clothes off.

			She probably would take them off, though. Girls always took everything off before they showered. Which meant I would have to sleep with her before we showered. Or else I would have to ask her not to take the bracelets off. I wasn’t sure which would be better, but I’d have to make sure she kept the bracelets on when I slept with her. That was the most important thing.

			I imagined myself sleeping with her with her bracelets on. I couldn’t recall her face, so I decided to turn the lights off. I couldn’t see her face in the darkness. I took her stylish silky lavender or white or pale-blue underwear off until the bracelets were all she was wearing. They caught a trace of light in the darkness and made a nice, soft clinking on the sheets.

			I was climbing down the ladder with such thoughts drifting through my mind when I felt myself beginning to grow hard beneath my rain slicker. Oh, no, why is this happening now of all times? Why am I having a hard-on when I’m halfway down this stupid ladder and I couldn’t get it up while I was in bed with the librarian—the girl with gastric dilation? And what’s the big deal with two silver bracelets—especially now, when the world is about to end?

			When I reached bottom and was standing on bedrock, she swung her flashlight around and lit up the surrounding space.

			“I’m sure the Murks are creeping around here,” she said. “I can hear them.”

			“Hear them?”

			“Their webbed feet flapping against the ground. It’s not very loud, but if you listen carefully, you can tell. And there’s also their presence and their smell.”

			I listened and sniffed, but I could not tell.



* * *



			—

			“It takes practice,” she said. “After a while, you can kind of hear their voices when they talk to each other—though ‘voices’ may be off: it’s more like sound waves. The same as bats. Unlike bats, though, some of the sounds they make are within the human hearing range. They can understand each other perfectly well.”

			“So how do the Semiotecs communicate with them? What kind of contact can they have if they can’t speak with each other?”

			“A device can be made that converts their sound waves into human speech and vice versa. The Semiotecs probably have one. My grandfather could easily have made one if he had wanted to, but he never did.”

			“Why not?”

			“He didn’t want to talk with them. They’re evil creatures, and their language is evil. They eat only rotten flesh and rotten garbage. They drink only putrid water. In ancient times, they lived under graveyards and ate the buried flesh of dead people—until Japan switched to cremation.”

			“So they don’t eat living people, then?”

			“If they catch one, they put the person in water and eat the corpse as it rots bit by bit.”

			“Oh, no,” I said with a sigh. “That does it for me, I’m ready to go back.”

			Nevertheless, we continued on by the river, she in the lead and I following after her. Whenever I shone my flashlight on her back, her postage-stamp-sized gold earrings sparkled.

			“Don’t those big earrings of yours get heavy when you wear them all the time?” I called out to her.

			“Not if you’re used to them,” she answered. “Like a penis. Has your penis ever felt heavy to you?”

			“No, not really. That never happens.”

			“Same thing.”

			We walked on without speaking for a while. She seemed to know every step of the way and kept her light trained on our surroundings as she hurried ahead. I struggled to keep up with her, taking care with each step.

			“Tell me,” I called out to her, hoping to keep her from getting too far ahead, “do you take those earrings off when you take a bath or shower?” She would slow her pace somewhat when she was speaking.

			“I leave them on,” she answered. “Even when I’m naked. Sexy, no?”

			“Let me think about it,” I said, flustered. “Maybe so, now that you mention it.”

			“Do you always do sex from the front—face-to-face?”

			“Pretty much.”

			“From the back sometimes, too?”

			“Uh-huh, I guess.”

			“There are lots of other ways to do it, too, aren’t there? Underneath, sitting up, using a chair…”

			“There’re lots of different people and lots of different situations, after all.”

			“I don’t know much about sex,” she said. “I’ve never seen it done, never done it myself, and no one would tell me what to do.”

			“Nobody can tell you what to do. You have to find out for yourself,” I said. “Like everybody else, you’ll find out naturally about one thing or another when you get a boyfriend and start sleeping with him.”

			“I don’t like that way of doing things,” she said. “I like things to be more overwhelming. I want to be violated overwhelmingly and accept it overwhelmingly, not ‘naturally’ learning about ‘one thing or another.’ ”

			“You’ve probably spent too much time with one old man—an all-too-overwhelming genius. There are other kinds of people in the world—ordinary people, who are just groping their way through the darkness. Like me.”

			“No, you’re different. You’d be okay with me, like I said to you last time, right?”

			I was determined to sweep my mind clean of sexual images. My erection was still with me, but it was pointless down here in the subterranean darkness, and it just made walking difficult.

			I tried changing the subject. “That transmitter of yours is still putting out the sound waves the Murks hate, I hope.”

			“Yes, of course. They have to stay at least fifteen meters away as long as the transmitter’s working. So make sure you don’t get more than fifteen meters away from me. Otherwise, they could grab you, take you to their lair, lower you down a well, and start sinking their teeth into you where you’re rotting. In your case, I bet they’d eat your wound first. Their teeth and claws are razor sharp, like rows of drill bits.”

			When I heard that, I scurried right up to her.

			“Does your wound still hurt?” she asked.

			“I think it’s gotten a little better, thanks to the medicine,” I answered. “It starts to throb if I make any strenuous moves, but it doesn’t hurt too much most of the time.”

			“If we can find my grandfather, I think he’ll be able to take your pain away.”

			“Your grandfather? How?”

			“It’s easy for him. He’s done it lots of times for me—say, when I’ve had bad headaches and stuff. He inputs a signal into your consciousness that makes you forget the pain. Actually, pain is an important message to your body, so you shouldn’t block it, but this is an emergency, so I think it’d probably be all right.”

			“It’d be great if he could do it for me,” I said.

			“Of course, this is assuming we’ll be able to find him.”

			Waving her high-powered flashlight right and left, she continued tramping upstream along the underground river. The rock walls on either side were marked by fissures or openings that looked like branch roads or eerie caves. Water was seeping from some of them, forming streams that poured into the river. Along the streams grew thick pads of slippery, mudlike moss of an unnaturally brilliant green. I couldn’t imagine how moss in the depths of the earth, unable to perform photosynthesis, could attain such color. The underground world probably operated according to its own laws.

			“Tell me, do the Murks know we’re down here walking along like this now?”

			“Of course they do,” she said matter-of-factly. “This is their world. They know everything that goes on down here. They’re all around us now with their eyes glued on us. I’ve been hearing them moving around the whole time.”

			I shone my flashlight beam on the surrounding walls but saw only crags and moss.

			“They’re lurking in the darkness in the branch roads and caves where the light doesn’t reach,” she said. “And they’re probably right behind us.”

			“How long has the transmitter been on?” I asked.

			“Ten minutes,” she said after looking at her watch. “Ten minutes and twenty seconds. Don’t worry, we get to the waterfall in another five minutes.”



* * *



			—

			We arrived at the waterfall exactly five minutes later. As before, the waterfall was almost silent, which meant the sound-pulling device was probably still working. We snugged on our hoods, tightened the laces under our chins, put on our goggles, and ducked under the soundless waterfall.

			“Strange,” she said, “the sound puller is still working, so they haven’t destroyed the lab. If they had broken in, they would have wrecked the place. They hate this lab.”

			As if to confirm her supposition, the laboratory door was locked. If the Murks had broken in, they would certainly not have locked the door again on their way out. Someone else must have raided the place.

			She took a long time matching the combination numbers and then opened the door with her electronic key. The lab was cold and dark and smelled of coffee. She hurriedly closed the door, locked it, checked to make sure it would not open, and switched on the light.

			The lab was in the same extreme state as the office above and my apartment—official forms all over the floor, furniture turned upside down, dishes shattered, carpet shredded and soaked with a bucket’s worth of coffee. I couldn’t imagine why the Doctor had made himself so much coffee: he could never have drunk such a huge amount by himself, no matter how much he liked the drink.

			The destruction of this lab, however, was fundamentally different from the destruction of the two other places in that the perpetrators had made a sharp distinction between things they were going to destroy and things they were not going to destroy. The destroyed items had been smashed to smithereens, but everything else was untouched. The computer, the communications equipment, the sound puller, and the electrical generator had all been spared: if you switched them on, they worked without a hitch. The full-sized Murk repeller, though, had been rendered unusable by the removal of several plinths, though it could quickly be restored to working order if new plinths were inserted.

			The back room was in the same condition. It looked like unsalvageable chaos at first glance, but the destruction was clearly calculated. The skulls lined up on the shelves had escaped any damage, as had the various gauges and instruments necessary for research. The destruction of the more inexpensive, replaceable equipment and experimental materials, however, had been done almost flamboyantly.

			The girl stepped over to the wall safe and checked inside. The door was not locked. She reached in with both hands and scooped out a pile of white burnt-paper ash, which she scattered on the floor.

			“Looks like your emergency automatic incinerator worked,” I said. “They didn’t get their hands on anything.”

			“Who do you think did this?”

			“Human beings, for sure,” I said. “Semiotecs or somebody got down here with the help of the Murks and broke the door open. Then just the humans came in and messed the place up. They left the most important equipment alone so they themselves could use the lab afterwards—probably to continue the Doctor’s research here. And finally, they locked the door to keep the Murks from ruining everything.”

			“But you think they weren’t able to take anything important?”

			“Probably not,” I said, scanning the room, “though they did get ahold of the most important thing—your grandfather. Thanks to which I’ve lost any chance of finding out what kind of mechanism he set in motion inside of me.”

			“No, you haven’t,” the fat girl said. “Calm down, I’m sure they didn’t take him. This place has a secret escape route. He must have gotten out that way, using the same Murk repeller we have.”

			“How do you know that?” I asked.

			“I don’t have any proof, but I’m sure of it. My grandfather is too careful to let anyone capture him. I’m sure he would have escaped the minute he heard someone trying to pry the door open.”

			“So, he must be up on the surface by now?”

			“No,” she said, “it’s not that simple. The escape route is a labyrinth that links up with the center of the Murks’ lair. The fastest he can get out is five hours—at least. But the transmitter battery lasts only thirty minutes. He must still be down there.”

			“Captured by the Murks?”

			“No way,” she said. “He has an emergency shelter down here that no Murk would ever dare to approach. He’s probably in there now, waiting for us to come get him.”

			“It sounds as if he’s taken every precaution,” I said. “Do you know where the shelter is?”

			“Yes, I do. He told me exactly how to get there. He drew a simple map in this notebook. And he’s listed all the dangers to watch out for.”

			“What kind of dangers?”

			“I think you’re probably better off not knowing,” she said. “Some people get more nervous than they have to be when they hear too much about such things.”

			I let out a sigh and gave up asking any more about dangers that were likely to befall me. I was afraid enough already.

			“How long will it take us to get to the shelter?”

			“Twenty-five or thirty minutes to the way in. Then another hour or hour and a half to where my grandfather is. Once we get to the entrance, we can stop worrying about the Murks. From here to there is the problem. We have to hurry, or the transmitter batteries could run out.”

			“And what if that happens?”

			“Then we just trust to luck,” she said. “We keep the Murks away by shining our flashlights all around us. They hate it when light hits them. If there’s the slightest gap, though, they can reach in and grab us.”

			“Oh, no,” I moaned. “Is the transmitter done charging?”

			She checked the meter and looked at her watch.

			“Another five minutes.”

			“We’d better hurry,” I said. “If my guess is right, the Murks have already told the Semiotecs we’re here, which means they’ll be coming back soon.”

			The girl took off her rain slicker and boots and changed into the U.S. Army jacket and running shoes I had brought for her.

			“You’d better change clothes, too,” she said. “Where we’re headed now, we won’t be able to get through unless we’re lightly dressed.”

			Like her, I took my slicker off and put my nylon windbreaker on over my sweater, zipping it up to the chin. Then I strapped on my backpack and traded my long rubber boots for sneakers. My watch said it was almost twelve thirty.

			The girl went into the back room, pulled out all the clothes hangers that were hanging in the closet, and threw them on the floor. Then she gripped the stainless-steel clothes rod in both hands and rotated it to the sound of gears meshing and clicking. As she continued turning the bar, a seventy-centimeter-square section of the lower-right closet wall opened up. I bent over for a peek. Beyond the opening was a patch of darkness that looked thick enough to pull out in handfuls, and I could feel cold, moldy-smelling air blowing into the room.

			“Beautifully made, wouldn’t you say?” the girl asked, turning toward me with her hands still gripping the bar.

			“Yes, very well made,” I said. “No ordinary person would ever imagine there was an escape hatch here.”

			She approached me, stretched up, and planted a little kiss beneath my ear. I felt warm all over, and my cut seemed to hurt less. Maybe I had a special spot beneath my ear. Or maybe it was just that I had not been kissed by a seventeen-year-old girl for a long time—eighteen years to be exact.

			“If you believe everything’s going to go well, then there’s nothing to be afraid of,” she said.

			“The older you get, the fewer things you can believe in,” I said. “Like the way your teeth wear down. It’s not that you get cynical or skeptical—just worn down.”

			“Are you scared?”

			“I am,” I said, bending over for another look into the hole. “I’ve always had a problem with dark, narrow places.”

			“Well, we can’t go back now. Maybe all we can do is go forward.”

			“Logically speaking,” I said. I was beginning to feel as if my body no longer belonged to me. I used to feel that way sometimes playing high-school basketball. The ball moved with such speed, when I tried to make my body respond to it, my mind couldn’t keep up.

			The girl kept her eyes locked on the transmitter gauge. “Let’s go,” she said when it was fully charged.

			As before, she went ahead and I followed. When we were inside the hole, she turned around and twisted the handle next to the door to close it, gradually narrowing down the square of light until it became a vertical line and finally disappeared. I felt myself being enveloped by a still more perfect darkness, one so dense I had never experienced such a thing before. The light of my flashlight could not break down the dominance of that darkness but could only open a feeble little light hole in it.

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “Why did your grandfather choose an escape route that goes straight to the middle of the Murks’ lair?”

			“Because that’s the safest way,” she said, shining her flashlight on me. “The whole center is a sacred sanctuary to them. They’re not allowed to go inside.”

			“For religious reasons?”

			“I think so. At least that’s what my grandfather told me. I’ve never seen it myself. Horrible as it is, they have a kind of religion. They worship a fish, a gigantic, eyeless fish.” She shone her flashlight ahead. “Anyhow, let’s get going. We don’t have much time.”

			The cave ceiling was so low we had to walk crouched over. The rock walls were mostly smooth, with few irregularities, but now and then I’d slam my head against a protruding corner. We had no time to worry about every bang of the head. I kept my flashlight beam aimed at her back and ran like crazy so as not to lose her in the darkness. For such an overweight girl, she moved with tremendous agility, speed, and endurance. I was in pretty good shape myself, but walking in a crouch kept my belly cut throbbing with pain as if someone were pounding a wedge of ice into my gut. My undershirt was soaked with sweat and clung to me like a cold second skin. The pain and discomfort were far preferable, though, to wandering around alone in the darkness if I lost sight of her.

			The farther I went, the stronger grew the feeling that my body no longer belonged to me—probably because I couldn’t see myself. I couldn’t see my own palm even if I held it in front of my eyes.

			Not being able to see your own body is kind of weird. If the situation continues long enough, you start to think the body might be nothing but a hypothetical construct. True, I felt pain whenever I hit my head on the ceiling, my belly cut continued hurting without letup, and the soles of my feet felt the ground. But these were mere sensations, mere concepts formed upon the hypothesis of “body.” Thus, it was entirely possible for the concepts to remain behind and continue functioning even after the body had ceased to exist, just as the memory of itchy toes remained with a person whose foot had been amputated.

			I tried a few times to make sure my body still existed by shining the flashlight on it, but I gave up out of fear I might lose sight of the girl. Your damn body’s still there, I tried telling myself. If it had ceased to exist, leaving only my spirit or whatever you call it in its place, I should have been having a lot easier time of it. If the spirit had to live on in eternal possession of things like a belly cut or ulcers or hemorrhoids, what kind of salvation could there be for it? Why did the spirit even exist if it were not something separate from the body?

			With such thoughts in mind, I hurried after the fat girl’s olive-drab combat jacket, the tight pink skirt peeking out from under it, and her pink running shoes. Her earrings sparkled in my light beam as they moved, looking like a pair of fireflies flitting around her head.

			She forged on without a word and never a glance in my direction, as if she had forgotten my very existence. She did a quick flashlight inspection of each side road and cave we passed but kept moving. At one fork in the road she stopped, took the map from her breast pocket, and shone her light on it to check the route. This made it possible for me to catch up with her.

			“Any problem? Is this the right way?” I asked.

			“So far so good. This is right,” she said with conviction.

			“How do you know?”

			“Because it’s the right way,” she said, aiming her flashlight at our feet. “Look at that.”

			I bent over and squinted at the lighted circle on the ground. In pits in the rock were scattered little things that sparkled silver in the light. I picked one up: it was a metal paper clip.

			“See what I mean?” she said. “My grandfather came this way. He knew we’d follow him, so he threw these down to mark the route.”

			“I see what you mean,” I said.

			“It’s been fifteen minutes,” she said. “We’d better hurry.”

			There were several more forks in the road ahead of us, but we just had to follow the trail of paper clips on the ground to find the right way and save valuable time.

			Now and then we would come to a deep hole in the ground, but these were marked in red on the map, so as we approached them, we would slow down somewhat and keep our lights trained on the path ahead. The holes were some fifty to seventy centimeters in diameter, which we could easily avoid by jumping over or walking around them. I tried dropping a nearby fist-sized rock into one of the holes and waited for it to land, but it made no sound, as if it had gone straight through to Brazil or Argentina. I tied my stomach up in knots just picturing myself slipping and falling in.

			The road snaked left and right and forked several times, and though it had no steep slopes, it headed steadily downward. I felt as if each step tore a little more of the bright surface world away from my back.

			We embraced at one point. She stopped short, turned around, switched her flashlight off, and put her arms around me. She found my lips with her fingertips and pressed her lips against them. I put my arms around her and softly pulled her close. Embracing in total darkness is very strange. I was pretty sure Stendhal had written something about hugging in the dark, though I couldn’t remember which book it was in. I tried to recall with no luck. Could Stendhal have had the experience of embracing a woman in the darkness? If I got out of this place alive, and if the world still hadn’t ended, I’d look for that book, I decided.

			The nape of her neck no longer smelled of melon cologne. Instead, it smelled like the nape of a seventeen-year-old girl’s neck. Just below it I recognized my own smell—the smell of daily life permeating my GI combat jacket: food I had cooked, coffee I had spilled, sweat I had produced, all now a permanent part of the jacket. That life felt like a phantom that would never come back to me as I held a seventeen-year-old girl in my arms in the subterranean darkness. I could recall its existence, but I couldn’t picture myself living it again.

			We held each other tight for a very long time. I knew the time was shooting by, but I couldn’t see that as a major problem. In each other’s arms, we were sharing our fear, and that was the most important thing.

			Her breasts were pressing into me, her lips opening. Her soft tongue and warm breath slipped into my mouth. Her tongue explored mine as her fingers probed my hair, but this lasted no more than ten seconds. She suddenly pulled away, leaving me with the bottomless despair of an astronaut lost in space.

			I switched on my flashlight to find her standing there. She switched on her own light.

			“Let’s go,” she said, turning away and walking on at the same pace as before. My lips retained the touch of hers, and my chest could still feel the beating of her heart.

			“I was pretty good at that, don’t you think?” she said without looking around at me.

			“Pretty damn good,” I said.

			“But something was missing, right?”

			“Maybe so,” I said. “Maybe something was missing.”

			“I wonder what?”

			“I have no idea,” I said. We walked another five minutes down a flat road and came to a wide-open area where the smell of the air and the sound of our footsteps were different. A clap of the hands brought back a deformed echo that was swollen in the middle.

			While she was checking our location on the map, I shone my flashlight on our surroundings. The ceiling was dome-shaped, the room a matching circle—a well-made circle that was clearly not a natural formation. The walls were slick and smooth and free of either indentations or protrusions. In the center of the floor was a shallow pool about a meter in diameter and holding some kind of slimy stuff. There was no strong smell in the place, but something unpleasant in the air filled our mouths with a sour saliva.

			“I think this is the entrance to their sacred space,” the girl said. “We’re safe for now. The Murks can’t go in beyond here.”

			“I’m glad they can’t go in, but can we get out?”

			“Just leave it to my grandfather. He’ll know what to do. And with our two transmitters working together, we should be able to keep the Murks away longer, charging one while the other is on. That way, there’s nothing to be afraid of, and we don’t have to worry about the time.”

			“I see what you mean,” I said.

			“Feeling a little braver now?”

			“A little,” I said.

			A highly detailed relief had been carved into the walls on both sides of the entrance to the sacred space. Two giant fish, each with the other’s tail in its mouth, formed a circle surrounding a globe. You could see right away that these were very strange fish. Their heads were swollen like the front ends of bombers and they had no eyes, instead of which two long, thick antennae curled outward like vines. Their mouths were too large for their bodies: straight slits open nearly to the gills, and just below where the jaw was attached, stumpy organs protruded like severed animal arms. At first glance, these organs looked as if they might serve the function of suction cups, but on closer inspection, I could make out three sharp claws on the end of each one. I had never seen a fish with claws before. The dorsal fin was deformed, and the scales thrust outward like thorns.

			“Is this some legendary creature, or could they actually exist?” I asked the girl.

			“Hmm, I wonder,” she said, bending over to pick up a few paper clips. “Anyhow, we made it here without getting lost. Quick, let’s go in.”

			I shone my flashlight one last time on the reliefs and followed her inside. It was something of a shock to me that the Murks could have wrought such finely detailed carvings down here in the total darkness. Simply knowing that they could see in the dark did nothing to reduce the amazement I felt upon actually beholding their work. And now, at this very moment, they might well be watching our every move from the shadows.

			Once we entered the sacred precincts, the road changed to a gradual uphill slope and the ceiling soared upward until it was out of range for my flashlight.

			“We’ll be climbing a mountain now,” she said. “Have you done any mountain climbing?”

			“I used to climb mountains every week—though never in the dark.”

			“This one’s not much of a mountain, I’m pretty sure,” she said, tucking the map into her breast pocket. “Maybe it’s more of a hill than a mountain. To them, though, it’s a mountain, according to my grandfather. Their only underground mountain. A sacred mountain.”

			“So, we’re going to defile it by being here.”

			“No, just the opposite. It’s been defiled since the very beginning. All defilements are amassed here. This world is, so to speak, a Pandora’s box sealed in the earth’s crust. And we’re about to pass through its center.”

			“We’re never going to come out of this alive.”

			“You just have to believe. Remember what I said? If you believe, there’s nothing to be afraid of. Happy memories, someone you loved, times you cried, things in your childhood, your plans for the future, favorite pieces of music—anything at all. If you keep thinking about things like that, there’s no reason to be afraid.”

			“Can I think about Ben Johnson?”

			“Ben Johnson?”

			“An actor in those old movies of John Ford’s. He was a great horseman, really looked good in the saddle.”

			She giggled in the darkness. “You’re terrific,” she said. “I really like you.”

			“I’m too old for you,” I said. “And I can’t play any musical instruments.”

			“I’ll teach you horseback riding if we ever get out of here.”

			“Thanks,” I said. “By the way, what have you been thinking about?”

			“Kissing you,” she said. “That’s why I kissed you before. You didn’t know that?”

			“Not at all.”

			“Do you know what my grandfather was thinking about when he came through here?”

			“No, of course not.”

			“Nothing at all,” she said. “He knows how to empty his mind. A genius can do stuff like that. If he empties his mind out, bad thoughts can’t get in.”

			“I see what you mean,” I said.

			The farther we went, the steeper the road grew, as she had warned me, until we came to a sheer cliff we had to climb. I thought about Ben Johnson all the while—the image of him on a horse. I kept my head as full as possible with Ben Johnson’s horseback-riding scenes from Fort Apache, She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, Wagon Master, and Rio Grande. The sun beat down on the open range, fluffy white clouds marked the sky as if daubed there with a writing brush, a herd of buffalo wandered through the valley, women revealed themselves in doorways, wiping their hands on their white aprons, rivers flowed and sparkled in the sun, people sang. Ben Johnson galloped across these scenes as straight as an arrow, and the camera kept gliding along the dolly rails, capturing his heroic figure in the moving frame.

			I went on thinking about Ben Johnson and his horse as I groped for handholds and footholds, thanks to which (perhaps) the pain of my slashed belly miraculously disappeared, and I could climb untroubled by thoughts of having been wounded. Maybe she was right and I shouldn’t dismiss her view that a particular signal input into the mind could mitigate physical pain.

			In mountain-climbing terms, this was not a challenging case of rock climbing: the footholds were solid, the cliff was not steep, and good-sized handholds were easy to find. Judged by surface standards, this was an easy route for beginners, safe enough for an elementary-school kid climbing alone on a Sunday morning. In the underground darkness, though, it was a different story. Not only was it impossible to see anything, but you had no idea what lay ahead, how much farther you had to climb, what position you were in, what lay below where your feet rested, or whether you were taking the right route. I had never realized how much fear the loss of sight could arouse. In some cases, it could rob you of your fundamental values and their accompanying self-respect and courage. When people are trying to accomplish something, they quite naturally grasp three points: What have I done so far? Where am I standing now? And how much do I have to do from here on out? Deprived of these three things, all one has left are fear, self-doubt, and fatigue. That was precisely the position I was in. It was not a technical question of ease or difficulty but more one of self-discipline.

			We continued climbing the mountain in the darkness. I couldn’t scale the cliff with a flashlight in my hand, so I shoved it into my pocket. She had the strap of hers across her body with the light itself low on her back, thanks to which neither of us could see a thing. Rocking back and forth, the light above her hip sent its beam uselessly into dark, empty space. I kept my eyes on the waving flashlight and climbed the cliff in determined silence.

			She would call out to me now and then to make sure I had not dropped too far back: “Are you okay?,” “Just a little farther,” and such.

			“Let’s sing,” she said after a pause.

			“Sing what?” I asked.

			“Anything at all—as long as it has a melody and words. Sing something.”

			“I’m no performer.”

			“Don’t worry, just sing.”

			All I could think of was the poet Hakushu Kitahara’s sentimental song about a Russian stove, “Pechka,” that every Japanese kid knows.


				On nights when snow is falling, how delightful, pechka

				Burn, pechka, and let’s tell stories.

				Once upon a time, long long ago,

				Burn now, pechka!



			I didn’t know any more words than that first verse, so I made up the rest. The whole family are warming themselves by the pechka when there’s a knock on the door. Father answers the door and finds a wounded reindeer standing there who says, “I’m so hungry! Please give me something to eat!” and they feed him a can of peaches. In the end, they all sit in front of the stove and sing songs.

			“Hey, you’re pretty good,” she said. “Sorry I can’t applaud. Really nice song.”

			“Thanks,” I said. “Next it’s your turn to sing.”

			“Hmm, how about my ‘Bicycle Song’?”

			“Go for it,” I said.


				On an April morning,

				Riding my bike

				Down an unknown road

				Headed for the forest,

				My brand-new bike

				Is a pink one.

				The handlebars and saddle

				Are both pink.

				Even the rubber brake pads

				Are pink, too.



			“Sounds like a song about you,” I said.

			“Of course it does! It’s my song!” she said. “Like it?”

			“Very much.”

			“Want to hear more of it?”

			“Of course!”


				On an April morning,

				What suits me is pink.

				Any other colors

				Are no good at all.

				My brand-new bike,

				Shoes, too, are pink.

				My hat, my sweater

				All are pink.

				Slacks and underwear

				Are pink, too.



			“Now I see how you feel about pink, so why don’t you carry the story ahead?” I said.

			“This part is indispensable,” she said. “By the way, do you think there’s such a thing as pink sunglasses?”

			“I think Elton John used to wear them.”

			“Wow,” she said. “Oh, well, the song goes like this—”


				On the road, I meet

				An older man.

				The man’s clothes

				Are all blue,

				And as if he has forgotten to shave,

				His beard is blue,

				And like a long night

				Deep blue it is.

				The long, long night

				Is always blue.



			“Is that about me?” I asked.

			“No, not at all. It’s not about you. You don’t appear in this song.”


				“Going to the forest

				Is something you’d best not do,”

				The older man says.

				The law of the forest

				Is something for the beasts.

				Even supposing

				It’s an April morning,

				Water doesn’t ever

				Flow backwards, you know,

				Even on an April morning.

				Still, I head out

				For the forest on my bike,

				On my pink bike

				On a lovely April morning

				There’s nothing scary, not at all.

				The color’s pink.

				As long as I stay on my bike,

				I’m not afraid.

				Neither red nor blue nor brown,

				A perfect pink.



			Shortly after she finished singing her “Bicycle Song,” we seemed to have topped the cliff, coming out to a spacious plateaulike area. We stopped to take a breath and swung our flashlights around. The plateau spread off into the distance like a smooth tabletop. She knelt for a few moments at the plateau’s trail head and found another half dozen paper clips there.

			“How much farther until we find your grandfather?” I asked.

			“Not much,” she said. “We’re almost there. He told me about this plateau so many times, I know my way around pretty well.”

			“Meaning, he’s been here lots of times?”

			“Of course. He’s been over every square inch of the place to make a map of the underground. He knows everything there is to know about it—where every branch cave leads and where the escape routes are.”

			“He explored it alone?”

			“Yes, sure, of course. He likes to do things on his own. It’s not that he’s a misanthrope or doesn’t trust people, but nobody can keep up with him.”

			“I think I know what you mean,” I said. “But tell me, what’s this plateau doing down here?”

			“This mountain is where the Murks’ ancestors used to live. They dug shallow caves into it and all lived here together. This flat area we’re standing on is where they used to perform religious rituals. Their gods supposedly dwelt here. Their priests and conjurers and stuff would stand right here and call to their gods of darkness and offer up sacrifices to them.”

			“You mean those grotesque fish with the claws?”

			“Exactly. They believe those fish rule this dark land, controlling everything from its ecosystem to its inhabitants to its doctrines and value system and life and death. Their legends tell that it was those fish that led their earliest ancestors here.” She aimed her light at our feet and showed me a kind of shallow channel that had been dug in the ground, maybe a meter wide and ten centimeters deep. It started at the trail head and went off straight into the darkness. “If we follow this path all the way, it should take us to their ancient altar. I’m pretty sure we’ll find my grandfather hiding there, because that’s the holiest spot in this whole sacred space and no one’s allowed to approach it. As long as we stay hidden there, we have absolutely no fear of being caught.”

			We followed the channel-like road straight ahead. It soon started sloping downward while the walls on either side rose up and began to close in on us until it felt as if they might crush us flat. As always, however, the place remained as still as the bottom of a well, and we sensed nothing moving down there. Our rubber-soled shoes squeaked against the rock floor, setting up strange rhythms in the narrow space between the walls. Unconsciously, I looked up at the sky several times. People naturally search for the light of the moon and stars when they’re enclosed in darkness.

			Of course, there were no stars or moon above, just heavy layers of darkness weighing down on me. The air was dense and still. Everything enveloping me felt as if it had grown far heavier than before—including my own existence. The breaths I expelled, the reverberations of my footsteps, even my swinging arms felt as if they were being dragged down to earth like heavy mud. I felt less that I was burrowing deep into the earth than that I had landed on some mystifying heavenly body somewhere in space. Gravity, the density of the air, the sense of time: all were different in every way from those that I remembered.

			I raised my left arm and turned on the light of my digital watch: 2:11. We had come underground at midnight exactly, which meant we had been in the darkness only a little over two hours, but I felt as if I had spent a quarter of my life in the dark. My eyeballs throbbed with pain from looking at the feeble light of my watch a bit too long. My eyes were probably assimilating to the darkness bit by bit. The beam of my flashlight also seemed to stab me in the eyes. The longer you’re in darkness, the more the darkness comes to feel normal and the light a foreign substance.

			Mouths clamped shut, we continued walking down the narrow channel deeper into the earth. Because it was a single flat road and I no longer had to worry about bumping my head, I turned my flashlight off and followed the sound of her rubber soles. The farther I walked, the less I knew whether my eyes were open or closed. The darkness was the same either way. I experimented with opening and closing my eyes but soon couldn’t tell the difference.

			The sound of her shoes was the only thing that made any sense impression on me. It was a distorted sound thanks to the terrain and the air and the darkness. I tried to translate it into speech in my head, but I couldn’t find any words that fit. It sounded like a language I didn’t know—something African or Middle Eastern. The Japanese sound system could never handle it. I thought I might be able to approximate it with French or German or English, so I tried English first. “Even-through-be-shopped-degreed-well” seemed close, but when I actually tried pronouncing those words, they sounded nothing like the sound of the shoes.

			More accurate might be the Finnish-sounding “Efgvén-gthŏuv-bge-shpèvg-égvele-wgevl,” I thought, but unfortunately, I didn’t know a word of the Finnish language. These sounds felt as though they might mean something like “The farmer met an old devil on the road,” but that was just a vague impression: I had nothing to base it on.

			As I walked along, I tried matching different languages and sentences to the shoe sounds and pictured each of her pink Nikes stepping in turn on the flat surface of the path: right heel meets ground, center of gravity moves forward, left heel meets ground before right foot lifts—over and over endlessly. Time slowed as if a clock’s spring had run down and the hands stopped moving. The pink running shoes slowed, too, ahead, behind in my foggy brain as their sound continued:

			Efgvén-gthŏuv-bge-shpèvg-égvele-wgevl

			Efgvén-gthŏuv-bge-shpèvg-égvele-wgevl

			Efgvén-gthŏuv-bge…

			An old devil was sitting on a rock by a country road in Finland. Ten thousand years old or possibly twenty thousand, he looked very tired, and his shoes and clothes were caked with dust. Even his beard was worn thin. “Where are you going in such a hurry?” he called to the farmer. “My hoe blade is chipped, so I’m going to have it fixed,” the farmer replied. “No hurry,” said the devil. “The sun’s still high. Don’t get all hot and bothered. Have a seat and listen to my story.” The farmer looked at the devil cautiously. He knew nothing good could come from consorting with a devil, but this devil looked so tired and shabby, the farmer— Just then, something struck me in the cheek—something soft and flat. Soft and flat and not very big, and pleasantly familiar. What the hell? While I was trying to get my thoughts straight, it hit me in the cheek again. I raised my right hand to sweep it away without success. It hit me again. Something shiny and annoying was waving in my face. I opened my eyes, only then realizing that they were closed. So, my eyes had been closed. What was in front of them now was her big flashlight, and what had been striking my cheek was her hand.

			“Stop that!” I shouted. “It’s so bright! It hurts!”

			“What are you talking about?” she yelled. “Don’t be stupid! You can’t sleep here! What are you thinking? Get on your feet!”

			“On my feet?”

			I switched on my flashlight and scanned the area. It finally dawned on me that I was sitting on the ground with my back against the wall. I must have fallen asleep without realizing it. The ground and wall were soaking wet.

			I slowly raised myself from the ground and stood up.

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “When could I have fallen asleep? I don’t remember sitting down or letting myself go unconscious.”

			“They did it,” the girl said. “They’ve been trying to make us both fall asleep.”

			“ ‘They’?”

			“The ones who live on this mountain. Gods or evil spirits or whatever they are. They’re trying to stop us.”

			I shook my head to get rid of the lump of something still inside it.

			“My brain fogged over. I couldn’t even tell whether my eyes were open or closed, and your shoes were making such a strange sound.”

			“My shoes?”

			I told her how the sound of her shoes had given rise to the old devil.

			“That’s their trick,” she said. “Like hypnotism. If I hadn’t noticed, you would have been sleeping here until it was too late.”

			“Too late?”

			“You heard me: too late,” she said without elaborating. “Come to think of it, you had a rope in your backpack, right?”

			“Uh-huh. About five meters long.”

			“Take it out.”

			I lowered my backpack, pulled my nylon rope out from among the food cans and whiskey and water bottles, and handed it to her. She tied one end of it to my belt and the other end around her waist, giving a yank to both sides.

			“This’ll do it,” she said. “Now we can’t get separated.”

			“Unless we both fall asleep,” I said. “You haven’t had much sleep, either, I’m sure.”

			“The important thing is not to let them catch you unawares. If you start feeling sorry for yourself for being sleep-deprived, that’s when the evil forces take advantage of you. Get it?”

			“I do.”

			“All right, then, let’s go. We don’t have time to waste.”

			We went ahead fastened together with the nylon rope. I tried hard not to pay attention to the sound of her shoes. I kept my flashlight trained on her back and stared at the olive-drab U.S. Army jacket. I must have bought that jacket in 1971, when the Vietnam War was still raging and the sinister-faced Richard Nixon was still president, when everybody had long hair and dirty shoes, listened to psychedelic rock, wore U.S. Army surplus combat jackets with a peace symbol on the back, and saw themselves as Peter Fonda—practically the age of the dinosaurs.

			I tried to recall things that had happened back then but couldn’t remember anything. All I could do was try picturing Peter Fonda on a motorcycle. Then I overlaid that scene with Steppenwolf’s “Born to Be Wild,” which, before I knew it, changed to Marvin Gaye’s “I Heard It Through the Grapevine,” probably because they had similar introductions.

			“What are you thinking about?” the fat girl said to me from up front.

			“Nothing special,” I said.

			“Sing a song?”

			“I’ve had enough singing.”

			“So, think of something else to do.”

			“Let’s talk.”

			“About what?”

			“How about times when it rained?”

			“Sounds good.”

			“What rainy times do you remember?”

			“It rained the evening my parents and brothers were killed.”

			“Maybe something more cheerful?”

			“No, that’s all right. I’d like to talk about it,” she said. “Besides, I don’t have anybody else I could talk with about that. Of course, if you’d rather not hear about it, I’ll think of something else.”

			“You should talk about it if you want to.”

			“You couldn’t tell if it was raining or not that day, from the morning on. The sky was perfectly still and covered over with a foggy, gray layer. I was in my hospital bed just looking at the sky. It was early November, and there was a camphor tree outside my window. A big camphor tree. Half its leaves had fallen, and the sky showed through. Do you like looking at trees?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t dislike looking at trees, but I don’t think I’ve ever paid that much attention.”

			To tell the truth, I didn’t know the difference between a camphor tree and an oak tree.

			“I’ve always loved looking at trees. I can spend hours sitting under a tree, touching its trunk, looking up at its branches, letting my mind wander. That day in the hospital, there was a big, beautiful camphor tree on the grounds. I spent the whole day in bed doing nothing, just looking at the tree and the sky until I had memorized every branch. I was like one of those train nuts who memorize railroad lines and station names.

			“And lots of birds came to visit the camphor tree, too. All kinds of birds—sparrows and shrikes and starlings and some kind of colorful birds I didn’t know the names of. Pigeons, too, now and then. They’d land in the tree, rest in the branches for a while, and fly off again. Birds are very sensitive to the rain. Did you know that?”

			“No, I didn’t,” I said.

			“If it was raining or looked like it was going to rain, birds would absolutely not come to the tree. But the second the rain let up, they would come and chirp like crazy. It was like they were celebrating the end of the rain—I have no idea why. Maybe because worms come up to the surface when the rain stops. Or maybe birds just like it when the rain stops falling. Anyhow, I could tell what the weather was like from the birds’ behavior. If there was no sign of the birds, it was raining, or if the birds came and sang, the rain had stopped.”

			“Were you in the hospital very long?”

			“Yes, a month or so. I used to have a leaky heart valve and needed surgery to fix it—very difficult surgery, so my family had practically resigned themselves to losing me. Strange, though, they all died and I’m the only one still living—the picture of health.”

			She stopped talking at that point and walked in silence for a while. I thought about her heart and camphor trees and birds as I walked along.

			“The day everybody died was an extremely busy day for the birds. The rain kept stopping and starting, so the birds kept appearing and disappearing. It was very cold that day, kind of an early sign of winter, so the hospital turned on the heat, which steamed up the windows, and I had to keep getting up to wipe them off. I’d get up from bed and wipe them with a towel and get back in bed. Actually, I was not supposed to get out of bed at all, but I wanted to see the tree and the birds and the sky and the rain. When you’re in the hospital a long time, things like that come to seem like life itself, you know. Have you ever been hospitalized?”

			“Never,” I said. I was always as healthy as a spring bear.

			“There were these red birds with black heads. They did everything in pairs. Compared with them, the starlings were like bank clerks in dark suits. As soon as the rain let up, though, all the birds would perch on the tree branches and sing.

			“When that happened, the thought crossed my mind—the world is such a mysterious place! There were millions and millions of camphor trees—well, not necessarily camphor trees—in the world, and the sun was shining on them and the rain was falling on them and millions and millions of birds of all kinds were landing on them and flying away when the rain came and went, and picturing that made me so sad!”

			“Why sad?”

			“I guess because the world is so full of trees and birds and rainfalls—more than you could ever possibly count. In spite of that, I could never understand even one camphor tree and one rainfall. Not ever. And I would probably grow old and die without being able to understand even one camphor tree and one rainfall. The thought made me feel so lonely, all I could do was cry there all by myself. And while I was crying, the only thing I wanted was for someone to hold me tight, but there wasn’t anybody at all who could do that. So I just kept crying and crying in bed, feeling so lonely.

			“Eventually, the sun set and the darkness came and I couldn’t see the birds anymore, so I couldn’t tell if it was raining or not. My whole family died that evening, though nobody told me until much later.”

			“You must have felt terrible when you heard the news.”

			“I don’t remember. I think I didn’t feel anything at all. All I remember is not having anyone to hold me that rainy fall evening. It was like the end of the world for me. Do you know what that’s like? Not to have anyone to hold you when you’re suffering alone in the dark and that is the one thing you want most of all?”

			“I think I know what you mean,” I said.

			“Have you ever lost someone you love?”

			“A few times, sure.”

			“So now you’re all alone?”

			“Not really,” I said, fingering the nylon rope tied to my belt. “Nobody can be entirely alone in this world. We’re all tied together one way or another. The rain falls, the birds cry, the belly gets cut, a girl and you share a kiss in the darkness.”

			“Without love, though, the world might as well not exist,” the fat girl said. “A world without love might as well be the wind outside blowing past the window: no hands you can touch, no smells you can take in. No matter how many girls you buy, no matter how many one-night stands you have, none of that is real. Nobody’s going to hold you tight.”

			“Hey, I’m not always buying women and having one-night stands,” I protested.

			“You might as well be,” she said.

			I saw she could be right. I didn’t have anyone to hold or be held by, and I would go on aging that way. I would continue adding years to my life, alone, like a sea slug clinging to a rock on the ocean bottom.

			Lost in my thoughts, I didn’t notice that she had come to a halt ahead of me, and I walked straight into her soft back.

			“Sorry,” I said.

			“Shh!” she said, grabbing my arm. “I hear something. Listen.”

			We stood still, listening to a sound coming toward us out of the darkness from way ahead on the path we were following. It was a faint sound you’d never notice if you weren’t listening for it, a distant rumbling of the earth or heavy metal objects rubbing against each other. Whatever it was, it continued without letup, its volume seeming to rise almost imperceptibly with each passing minute. It was an eerie, chilling sound that had the feel of a large bug crawling up your back, a low reverberation that barely made it into the range of human hearing.

			The surrounding air seemed to have begun vibrating along with the waves of sound. A thick, heavy wind flowed around us slowly from front to back like mud being dislodged by a river. The air was damp, cold and clammy, the space filled with an impending sense of premonition: something was about to happen.

			“Are we going to have an earthquake?” I asked.

			“That’s no earthquake,” said the fat girl. “It’s much worse than an earthquake.”





22


			End of the World


			Gray Smoke


			As the old man had predicted, gray smoke rose into the air almost every day. It billowed up over Apple Wood to be drawn straight into the thick layer of cloud that covered the sky. If I stared at it long enough, the illusion would overtake me that all the clouds were being made right there in Apple Wood. The smoke would begin rising at exactly three o’clock in the afternoon and continue until all the dead beasts had been burned. The day after a fierce blizzard or an intensely cold night, thick smoke reminiscent of a forest fire’s would continue for hours.

			I couldn’t imagine why the people didn’t do something to keep the beasts from dying.

			“Why don’t they build sheds or something for them?” I asked the old man between chess moves. “Why don’t they protect the beasts from snow or wind or the cold? The sheds wouldn’t have to be anything special: a roof and basic walls would save a lot of lives.”

			“It’d be a waste,” the old man said without taking his eyes off the chessboard. “We could build them, but the beasts wouldn’t go in. They’ve always slept on the ground. It’s been that way forever. They will only sleep outside, wrapped in snow and wind and cold, even if it means losing their lives.”

			The Colonel set his bishop in front of his king to form a strong defense, his two horns establishing a firing line on either side. He was expecting me to attack.

			“It sounds as if the beasts want to suffer and die,” I said.

			“That may be true, in a sense. But it’s only natural for them—the cold and the pain. It may be their salvation.”

			The old man fell silent, so I tried to wedge my monkey in beside his wall, hoping to lure him into moving it. He almost fell for the trick but then caught himself and moved his knight back a space, shrinking his defense perimeter down to a pincushion.

			The old man smiled and said, “Aren’t you getting crafty!”

			“I’m still no match for you,” I said with a laugh. “But tell me, what do you mean by ‘salvation’?”

			“Just that death might be the very thing that saves the beasts. They certainly do die, but they come back to life in the spring. As new young ones.”

			“And those new ones mature and suffer and die in the same way, right? Why do they have to suffer so much?”

			“Because it’s the rule,” he said. “Your turn. You’ll never win unless you crush my bishop.”



* * *



			—

			After three days of intermittent snow, the skies were suddenly swept clear. The sun poured down into the town’s white-frozen streets, which filled with the gurgling of snowmelt and the glare of long-missed sunlight. Clumps of snow dropping from tree branches resounded everywhere. I shut myself up indoors with the curtains drawn, avoiding the light, but try as I might to shield myself, I couldn’t escape it completely. Like a giant cut jewel, the frozen town reflected sunlight from every angle, sending strangely direct shafts of light into the room to stab my eyes.

			Afternoons like that I spent face down in bed, eyes against the pillow, listening to bird songs. Their many different cries would gather at one window and fly off to the next. The birds knew the old men living in the residence would scatter breadcrumbs on the windowsills. The old men themselves would sit chatting in the sunlight in front of the residence. I could hear them, but I was the only one denied the sun’s warm embrace.



* * *



			—

			When the sun set, I would get out of bed, wash my swollen eyes with cold water, put on my black glasses, and walk down the snowy slope toward the library. I could not read as many dreams as usual, though, on days when my eyes had been injured by the glare. One or two skulls’ worth was all it took for the light emitted by the old dreams to make my eyeballs feel they were being jabbed by needles. The eyeballs would become heavy, as if the blurred space inside them had been stuffed with sand, and my fingertips would lose their delicate sensitivity.

			When that happened, the librarian would massage my eyes with a cold, wet towel and warm up some thin soup or milk for me. Both the soup and the milk felt strangely gritty on my tongue and had a certain bitterness, but I soon began to get used to them and developed some appreciation for their flavor.

			She seemed very pleased when I told her so. “That means you are getting used to the town,” she said with a delighted smile. “The food here is a little different from other places’ food. We make many different things with very few ingredients. The things we have that look like meat, eggs, and coffee are not meat, eggs, or coffee. They are just made to look like them. This soup is very good for you. What do you say? Hasn’t it made you feel warm and eased your mind a bit?”

			“Yes, I think so,” I said.

			I was, in fact, regaining warmth because of the soup, and my head no longer felt so heavy. I thanked her for the soup, closed my eyes, and rested both my body and my head.

			“Don’t you want something else?” she asked.

			“Aside from you?” I replied.

			“I don’t know, it just occurred to me: maybe the winter has hardened your heart, but if you had that one something, your heart might open a little bit.”

			“Sunlight is the only thing I need,” I said, taking off my black glasses and wiping them with a cloth. “But it’s hopeless. My eyes can’t take the light of the sun.”

			“I mean something simpler. Some little something that would soften your heart, like the way I just massaged your eyes. Can’t you remember something from the world you used to live in, something you would do whenever your heart became hard?”

			I took a long time searching one by one through my few remaining memory fragments, but I couldn’t bring back anything that seemed like what she was looking for.

			“No, I can’t recall a thing. Practically all the memories I should have are gone.”

			“Anything at all would be fine, even the smallest thing. Tell me anything that comes to mind. We’ll think about it together. I want to help you any way I can.”

			I nodded and tried hard to concentrate, to unearth the buried memories from my old world, but the bedrock was too solid: I couldn’t budge it using all my strength. My head started hurting again. My self must have been lost forever when I was separated from my shadow. All that was left inside me now was my uncertain, incoherent heart, and even that was being sealed shut in the winter’s cold.

			She pressed her palm against my temple.

			“Never mind,” she said. “You can think about it later. You might just remember something before too long.”

			“I’ll read one more old dream to finish up,” I said.

			“You look so tired, though. Don’t you think we should pick up again tomorrow? You shouldn’t overdo it. The old dreams can wait.”

			“No, reading old dreams is easier than doing nothing. At least I don’t have to think about anything while I’m dreamreading.”

			She looked at me a few moments, but then she nodded, stood up from the table and disappeared into the stacks. I rested my cheek on my hand, closed my eyes, and steeped myself in darkness. How long would the winter go on? The old man had said it would be a long, hard winter, and it had only just begun. Would my shadow make it through the long winter? Indeed, would I myself be able to ride out the winter holding on to this tangled, unstable heart of mine?

			She placed a skull on the table, wiped the dust off with a damp rag, and polished it with a dry rag as usual. Cheek still resting on my hand, I studied the movements of her fingers.

			“Is there something I can do for you?” she asked, looking up at me.

			“You’re already doing so much for me,” I said.

			She stopped moving her hands, sat in the chair on the other side of the table, and looked straight at me. “That’s not what I’m talking about,” she said. “I mean something more special. Like getting into bed with you. That kind of thing.”

			I shook my head. “No, I’m not wishing I could sleep with you—though I’m very glad to hear you say that.”

			“I don’t understand,” she said. “I thought you wanted me.”

			“I do want you. But I can’t sleep with you just yet. That’s not the same as whether I want you or not.”

			She gave this some thought but began slowly polishing the skull again. While she worked, I raised my head and looked at the high ceiling and the yellow electric light hanging there. I could not sleep with her now, no matter how much my heart might have hardened, no matter how firm winter’s grip on me might have become. If I were to do that, my heart would become even more confused than it was already, and my sense of loss would only grow deeper. The town probably wanted me to sleep with her. That would make it far easier for them to take control of my heart.

			She set the polished skull in front of me, but I did not reach out for it. Instead, I looked at her fingers resting on the table. I tried to read some kind of meaning in those fingers of hers, but I could not. They were nothing but ten slim fingers.

			“I’d like you to tell me about your mother,” I said.

			“What should I tell you about her?”

			“Anything at all.”

			“Hmm,” she said, touching the skull on the table. “I think I might have had different feelings for her than I did for other people. Of course, I can’t remember very well, it was so long ago. But I think that might have been true. I think I had different feelings for her than for my father, say, or my little sisters, I don’t know why.”

			“The heart is like that,” I said. “It doesn’t have the same amount of feeling toward everything. It’s like the flow of a river. It changes with the terrain.”

			She smiled. “That seems unfair,” she said.

			“That’s just how it is,” I said. “You still love your mother, don’t you?”

			“I can’t tell about that.”

			She turned the skull to face in different angles on the tabletop and stared at it.

			“Maybe my question was too vague?”

			“Yes, I think it was.”

			“Let’s talk about something else, then,” I said. “What did your mother used to like? Do you remember?”

			“Yes, I remember very well. She liked the sun. She liked taking walks. She liked playing in the water in summer, and she liked spending time with the beasts. We used to walk a lot on warm days. The people of the town usually don’t take walks, but you like to walk, don’t you?”

			“Very much,” I said. “And I like the sun, and playing in the water. Can you remember anything else?”

			“Hmm, my mother used to talk to herself a lot when she was at home. I’m not sure I can say it was something she liked, but she used to do it all the time, talking to herself.”

			“What did she talk about?”

			“That I don’t remember. I’m not even sure she was talking to herself in the usual sense. I can’t explain it very well, but I think it was something special for her.”

			“Something special?”

			“Yes, she would stretch certain words out long, and make others short, and give them strange accents, and they would go high and low like the wind blowing…”

			I looked at the skull in her hands and tried groping around again among my vague memories. Then something struck me.

			“They were songs,” I said.

			“Can you speak songs like that?”

			“You don’t speak songs,” I said. “You sing them.”

			“Let me hear you sing one.”

			I took a deep breath and tried to sing something, but I couldn’t think of a single song. There were none left inside me. I closed my eyes and sighed.

			“It’s useless,” I said. “I can’t think of any songs.”

			“How can you go about recalling a song?”

			“With a record and record player. No, that’s probably out of the question. A musical instrument would do it. You could make a sound on the instrument and while you were doing it, you could probably recall at least one song.”

			“What does a musical instrument look like?”

			“Hmm, that’s hard to explain. There are hundreds of them. The way you play them and the sounds they make are different depending on the type of instrument. They come in all different shapes and sizes, from ones that four people can barely lift to ones that fit in the palm of your hand.”

			Once the words were out of my mouth, I realized that a thread of memory was beginning to come unraveled inside me, one tiny bit at a time. Perhaps things were moving in a good direction.

			“We might have things like that in the materials room in back,” she said. “It’s called the materials room, but it’s just a place that’s crammed full of useless junk from earlier periods. I’ve hardly looked in there myself. Would you like to try searching in there?”

			“Let’s have a look,” I said. “I probably can’t do any more dreamreading today, anyway.”

			We cut through the broad stacks with their rows of skulls, came out to another corridor, and opened a door like the library entrance door with a frosted-glass panel. A thin layer of dust clung to the brass knob, but the door was not locked. When she twisted the light switch, powdery yellow light filled the long, narrow room and cast shadows onto the white wall, shadows of the many different objects piled on the floor.

			Most of the objects on the floor were suitcases, valises, and other travel bags. Scattered among them were things like typewriters and tennis racquets in cases, but they were the exception. Most of the floor space was occupied by all kinds of large and small bags—possibly a hundred of them altogether, and all were covered by a layer of dust so thick it seemed destined to have settled there. I had no idea how these bags had ended up in this room, but opening each one to find out would have been a massive undertaking.

			I squatted down and looked inside one of the typewriter cases, causing an avalanche of white dust that swirled into the air. The typewriter was an old-fashioned one with round keys and was as big as a cash register. Its black paint was chipped here and there as though the machine had seen long use.

			“Do you know what this is?” I asked her.

			“No idea,” she said, standing next to me with her arms folded. “I’ve never seen one before. Is that a musical instrument?”

			“No, it’s a typewriter. It’s a thing for writing letters and numbers. A very old one.”

			I closed the typewriter case and opened the wicker basket sitting next to it. Inside was a nicely packed picnic set—knives, forks, plates, cups, and white napkins that had yellowed with age. These, too, were from an early time. No one had bothered to lug such things around after the invention of aluminum dishes and paper cups.

			A large pigskin travel bag was mostly filled with clothing: a suit, shirts, neckties, socks, and underwear, all so worm-eaten they were barely recognizable. In among the clothing was a toiletries case and a flat hip flask for whiskey. In the case was a hard, stiff toothbrush and shaving brush. I unscrewed the cap of the flask but could smell nothing. There was nothing else in the suitcase—no books or notebooks or memo pads.

			I found pretty much the same sorts of things in the other bags I opened: clothing and minimal accessories—all seemingly packed at random in a great hurry. Each bag lacked something that travelers would ordinarily take with them, which gave the observer an impression of something unnatural. People did not all leave on trips carrying nothing but clothes and toiletries. I found nothing in the bags, finally, that suggested anything about the owners’ personality or lifestyle.

			The clothing in the bags was entirely unremarkable, neither luxurious nor shabby. True, there were differences in period or season or types having to do with the owner’s age and sex, but nothing otherwise memorable. All smelled about the same and were worm-eaten. There were no names attached to anything, as if someone had gone through the bags, carefully stripping away any hint of names or individuality, leaving only the anonymous detritus inevitably produced by each historical period.

			I gave up after looking through five or six bags. The dust was just too awful, and I couldn’t believe I would find any musical instruments in any of the other bags. If there were instruments anywhere in this town, they were somewhere else, not here.

			“Let’s get out of here,” I said. “The dust is killing my eyes.”

			“Are you disappointed we couldn’t find any musical instruments?”

			“Yes, I suppose so. But we can look somewhere else.”



* * *



			—

			I was climbing West Hill after seeing her home when a blast of winter wind came chasing after me and tore through the woods as if cracking the sky open. I turned to see half the moon suspended over the clock tower and a thick wad of cloud trailing past. The river in the partial moonlight looked like oozing tar.

			I suddenly thought of a warm-looking scarf I had found in a trunk in the materials room. It had had several large worm holes, but it could probably help me stand the cold if I wound it around my neck in layers. Gatekeeper could probably tell me who owned the luggage and whether it was all right for me to use any items from it. Standing in the wind without a scarf, I felt as if my ears were being chopped off. I would go see Gatekeeper tomorrow morning. I had to find out, too, how my shadow was doing.

			I turned my back on the town again and climbed the frozen slope toward the government residences.





23


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Holes, Leeches, Tower


			“That’s no earthquake,” she said. “It’s much worse than an earthquake.”

			“Like what?”

			She started to say something but breathed in momentarily, thought better of it, and shook her head.

			“I don’t have time to explain now. Run as fast as you can! It’s the only thing that’ll save us! Your cut might hurt, but that’s better than dying, isn’t it?”

			“Probably,” I said.

			Still roped together, we ran straight along the channel at full speed. Her flashlight beam bobbed up and down with every step, tracing zigzag graph lines on the high, straight walls towering on either side of the channel. The canned goods and water and whiskey bottles in my backpack clanked with every shake. I would have loved to throw out everything but the absolute minimum supplies in there, but we had no time to stop and sort things. Running after her with all my might, I didn’t even have time to think about the pain of my belly cut, nor could I adjust my speed to something more comfortable as long as I was roped to her. Her sharp breaths and the clanking of my backpack resounded rhythmically in the long, narrow slice of darkness, but that sound was soon overwhelmed by the rising volume of the rumbling earth.

			The farther we ran, the louder and clearer the sound grew, both because we were charging straight for the source and because the volume of the sound itself was growing. What had seemed at first to be the earth rumbling changed to something more like violent gasps torn from a gigantic throat—that sound when a huge breath being expelled from the lungs is caught in the back of the throat before it can turn into a voice. The hard bedrock continued creaking as if it were chasing after that sound, and the surface started trembling fitfully. Something ominous was happening underfoot—something that seemed ready to swallow us up.

			The closer we ran toward the source of the sound, the more I felt myself cringing, but as long as the girl was going to keep heading in that direction, I had no choice in the matter. All I could do was go as far as possible.

			Fortunately, the path had no curves or obstacles but was as flat and straight as a bowling alley, so we were able to keep running undistracted.

			The gasps were coming at gradually narrowing intervals. While violently shaking the underground darkness, they seemed to be charging toward some destined point. Now and then another sound reached us, like the scraping together of two gigantic boulders by an overwhelming force, as if all the powers pressed together in the darkness were struggling to throw off the yoke that bound them.

			The sounds continued for some minutes before coming to a sudden halt. After a brief interval, a strange hissing filled the area as if thousands of old men were sucking breath through their teeth. Then nothing. The rumbling of the earth, the gasps, the scraping of the boulders, the creaking of the bedrock all came to a stop. Only a ragged whistling resounded in the darkness like the stealthy breaths of a beast gleefully storing up its strength as it lies in wait for its prey to draw closer, or like millions of underground insects stretching and squeezing their creepy bodies like concertinas when stirred by some anticipation. Whatever it was, I had never heard a sound so horrifyingly full of intense malignity.

			The single most horrifying quality of the sound was the sense it gave not of rejecting us but of beckoning us toward it. They knew that we were drawing closer, and the joy of it set their evil hearts aflutter. The thought of that sent cold shivers of fear down my spine as I ran along. She was right: it certainly was no earthquake. It was far more terrifying than that. What it was, however, I still had no idea. It had long since surpassed the bounds of my imagination and reached, as it were, the outskirts of my consciousness. I was unable to imagine anything anymore. All I could do was push myself to my physical limits and leap across the deep, bottomless trenches that lay between my imagination and my circumstances. It was far better to keep doing something than to do nothing at all.

			I felt we had been running for a very long time, but precisely how long, I couldn’t tell. It might have been three or four minutes or thirty or forty minutes. My fear and the confusion it gave rise to had paralyzed my body’s normal sense of time. I kept running but felt no fatigue, and the pain of the cut on my belly had long since ceased to rise even to a corner of my consciousness. My elbows felt strangely stiff, but that was the only physical sensation I was able to experience while running. I had virtually no internal awareness that I was, in fact, running. My legs moved forward by themselves, pounding against the ground with every step. I ran continuously forward as if I were being pushed from behind by a dense cushion of air.

			I didn’t realize it at the time, but the stiffness of my elbows most likely came from my ears. Trying not to be conscious of the horrifying sound in the air, I naturally tightened the muscles around my ears, and that stiffness moved down through my shoulders to my elbows. I realized this only when I fell forward, collided with her shoulder, knocked her down to the ground, and flew over her. She had tried to give me a warning shout, but my ears had been unable to hear it. I certainly knew that I had heard something, but I had placed a cap over the circuit linking the physical sound picked up by my ears and the mental ability to read some meaning from that sound, which made it impossible for me to perceive her warning as a warning.

			This thought came to me the instant I was hurled onto the hard ground headfirst. I had been involved in the unconscious process of trying to adjust my hearing—an act of sound pulling, no less, the thought struck me. The human mind seemed to exhibit various bizarre capabilities when it was forced into extreme states. Or perhaps I was drawing gradually closer to evolution.

			Next—or, to put it more precisely, overlapping with this thought—what I felt was an overpowering pain in my temple. The darkness burst open before me and scattered, time stopped its forward pace, and I felt as if I were being physically forced into a warped moment in space-time, my pain was so extreme. I was sure my skull had been cracked or chipped or dented, my brains splattered all around. Which meant I must already be dead, in spite of which my consciousness was still writhing in pain in pursuit of memories, like a severed lizard tail.

			When this single instant passed, I knew for sure I was alive—alive and breathing, as a result of which I was able to feel a horrendous pain in my head. I could feel tears gushing out of my eyes and wetting my cheeks, coursing down and spilling onto the hard bedrock, and flowing into the corners of my mouth. Never in my life had I walloped my head so hard.

			I considered letting myself lose consciousness once and for all, but something continued to link me to this world of pain and darkness, and that was a vague fragment of memory that I was in the middle of trying to accomplish something and was only partway through. I had been running when I tripped and fell. Running away from something. I couldn’t just fall asleep here. My memories were pitifully vague, ragged scraps, but I put all my strength into clutching those scraps with both hands.

			I hung on to them for real, but as I regained consciousness, I realized that what I was hanging on to were not mere scraps of memory. I was also clutching a length of nylon rope. I felt for a second that I had become a heavy piece of laundry in the wind. I resisted the wind and gravity and all the other forces that were trying to knock me down to the ground, struggling to carry out my mission as a piece of laundry. Why such a thought occurred to me, I had no idea. Probably because I had developed a habit of transposing situations in which I found myself into more expedient forms.

			The next thing I felt was that my lower body was in a totally different state from my upper body. To put it more precisely, I couldn’t feel much of anything from the waist down. I had decent control over the sensations of my upper body: my head was hurting, my cheeks and lips were pressed against the cold, hard bedrock, my hands had a firm grip on the rope, my stomach had come up to my throat, and my chest was snagged on some kind of protrusion. Of that much I could be sure, but I had no idea what was happening below the waist.

			Maybe it was gone, I thought. At the shock of having been hurled to the ground, my body might have been torn in two at the precise site of my wound and the lower half blown away. My legs—I thought—my toes, my belly, my penis, my testicles…but this was a little too crazy. I would have been in much greater pain if I had lost the entire bottom half of my body.

			I tried a calmer reassessment of the situation. My body was still there from the waist down. It was just in a state that made it impossible for me to feel anything. I squeezed my eyes shut, waited for the successive waves of pain in my head to pass, and concentrated my attention on the lower half of my body. The effort of concentrating on my seemingly missing lower half felt very much like the effort of trying to make a flaccid penis come erect—like trying to force power into an empty space.

			In any case, I recognized that my lower body was in an in-between state, perhaps even dangling in space. Yes, it was hanging in the space beyond the bedrock while my upper body was just barely managing to prevent it from falling all the way and my hands were gripping the rope for that purpose.

			I opened my eyes to find a light glaring into them. The fat girl was shining her flashlight at my face.

			I pulled as hard as I could on the rope and struggled to bring my bottom half up onto the bedrock.

			“Hurry,” the girl said. “We’ll both die if we don’t hurry.”

			I tried to swing my legs onto the top of the bedrock, but I couldn’t make it happen. There was nothing protruding from the rock for my legs to catch on. All I could do was take a chance: let go of the rope, plant my elbows against the rock surface, and try to lift my whole body as if doing pull-ups. My body felt terrifically heavy and the rock face felt strangely slippery, as if it were soaked with blood. I didn’t really know what was making it so slippery, but I couldn’t bother to worry about that now. My belly cut had scraped against a rock corner and was hurting as though a blade had slashed it open again. I felt as if someone in heavy shoes were trampling me all over, trying to smash my body and mind and existence to bits.

			Still, somehow or other, I seemed to be successfully pulling myself up, just barely, a centimeter at a time. My belt caught the edge of the bedrock, and at the same time, I realized, the nylon rope tied to the belt was pulling me forward. Rather than helping me, though, the pulling was aggravating the pain of my cut and interfering with my concentration.

			“Don’t pull the rope!” I yelled toward the flashlight beam. “I’ll get up by myself, somehow, so please don’t pull on the rope.”

			“Can you manage?”

			“Yes, I can manage, one way or another.”

			With the belt buckle caught on the edge of the bedrock, I put all my strength into swinging one leg up and succeeded in escaping from the weird black hole. After confirming that I had made it out safely, the girl came over and ran her hands all over me as if to assure herself that all my body parts were still attached.

			“Sorry I couldn’t help pull you out,” she said. “I had all I could do to hold on to the rock so the two of us wouldn’t fall in.”

			“That’s all right, but why didn’t you warn me to watch out for this hole?”

			“I didn’t have time. That’s why I yelled for you to stop.”

			“I couldn’t hear what you were saying,” I said.

			“Anyhow, we have to get out of here right away,” she said. “Be careful going through here—there are so many holes. We’ve almost reached our destination. But make it quick or they’ll suck our blood until we fall asleep and die.”

			“Suck our blood?”

			She shone her light on the hole that I had almost slipped down into. It was a perfect circle, about a meter across, that could have been drawn with a compass. When she swung her light around, I could see holes of the same size covering the ground and stretching off into the distance. It looked like a gigantic beehive. The sheer rock walls that had lined both sides of the trail suddenly vanished, and ahead lay a broad, flat surface with countless holes. The ground threaded its way among the holes, forming a precarious pathway as wide as a meter or as narrow as thirty centimeters between holes, though apparently negotiable if we remained vigilant.

			The problem was that the ground looked wavy. It was an odd sight. The bedrock should have been firm, but it looked like constantly shifting sand. At first I thought my eyes were playing tricks on me after that strong blow to the head, and I tried shining my flashlight on my own hand to check, but the hand did not look wavy or shaky. It was just my normal hand. Which meant no harm had been done to my optic nerves. The ground was really moving.

			“Leeches,” she said. “A swarm of leeches have crawled up from the holes. If we waste time here, they’ll suck us dry.”

			“Oh, terrific. Is this the ‘much worse’ thing you said could happen to us?”

			“No, leeches are just a sign of things to come. The really awful part comes later. Hurry up!”

			Still roped together, we started treading on the leech-infested rocks. The slippery sensation of squashing thousands of leeches in tennis shoes worked its way up my legs to my back.

			“Be careful not to slip,” she said. “If you fall into one of these holes, you’ve had it. They’re full of leeches—a sea of them.”

			She clutched my elbow, and I had a tight grip on the edge of her jacket. Making our way over the slippery rocks no more than thirty centimeters wide in the darkness was a tremendous challenge. A thick, gelatinous layer of squashed leeches stuck to the bottoms of our shoes, making it impossible to gain a solid foothold. Some leeches seemed to have stuck to my clothing when I fell before, and I could feel them sucking my blood from my neck and ears, but I couldn’t brush them away. My left hand was occupied with holding the flashlight and my right hand with clutching her jacket. Letting go of either of those was out of the question. Using the flashlight to check my footing as I walked, I had no choice but to keep looking at leeches, swarming in numbers that made me dizzy and crawling out of the dark holes.

			“Don’t you think the Murks used to throw their sacrificial victims into these holes in the old days?” I asked the girl.

			“Exactly,” she said. “Very perceptive of you.”

			“It’s pretty obvious,” I said.

			“The leeches were thought to be emissaries of the fish—or at least were subservient to them in some way. So, the Murks used to offer up sacrifices to both the fish and the leeches—the flesh and blood of freshly-killed victims. Most of them were humans they captured and brought down from the surface.”

			“They’ve given up that practice now, I suppose?”

			“Yes, probably. My grandfather says they eat the flesh of human beings and offer up only the heads as symbolic sacrifices. At least since this place was made into sacred precincts, nobody comes in here anymore.”

			We had stepped over innumerable holes and probably trampled tens of thousands of slimy leeches. Both of us had come close to losing our footing but held on to each other for support each time.

			The ghastly whistling seemed to be welling up from the dark holes. It totally surrounded us as if nocturnal trees were stretching feelers out of the holes. The more closely I listened to it, the more open and unthrottled the whistling sounded. It was less like a rush of air through lips than an appeal coming directly from the open windpipes of a throng of beheaded corpses.

			“The water’s getting closer,” she said. “The leeches are just a sign the water’s coming. They’ll disappear before the water arrives. Any minute now, the water is going to gush up out of the holes and this whole area will turn into a swamp. The leeches know that and are trying to escape through the holes. We should get to the altar before the water comes.”

			“You knew about this, didn’t you? How come you didn’t warn me?”

			“Actually, I didn’t know for sure. The water doesn’t come up every day, just two or three times a month. I never imagined that today would happen to be one of those days.”

			“When it rains, it pours,” I said, letting out the thought that had been gnawing at me since morning.

			We stepped from the edge of one hole to the edge of another, forging ahead with great caution, but there was no end to the holes. It seemed they might go on to the end of the earth. There were so many dead leeches stuck to the bottoms of my shoes, I could hardly feel myself walking on the ground. Having to concentrate on every single step, I felt my brain fogging over and found it harder and harder to keep my balance. Extreme states tend to expand one’s physical abilities, but the powers of mental concentration are far more limited than the person himself tends to think. No matter what kind of danger it might pose, when the same type of situation goes on and on, the ability to concentrate on it inevitably begins to wane. As time passes, one’s awareness of the danger and one’s ability to imagine death soon lose their edge, and a mental blank takes over.

			“Just a little farther,” the girl called out to me. “We’ll get into the safe place soon.”

			Speaking was too great an effort, so I just nodded. Only after my nod did it occur to me that nodding was pointless in the darkness.

			“Can you hear me? Are you all right?”

			“I’m all right. I’m just sick to my stomach,” I said.

			I had been feeling nauseous for a long time. The leeches swarming on the ground, their disgusting smell, their slimy fluids, the eerie whistling, the darkness, my physical exhaustion and need for sleep: all combined to clamp my stomach in an iron ring. Foul-smelling liquid rose from my stomach to the base of my tongue. My powers of concentration seemed to be reaching their limit. I felt as if I were playing a piano with only three octaves’ worth of keys that had not been tuned for five years. How many hours had I been wandering around in the darkness? What time was it in the outside world? Was the sky already growing light? Were the morning papers being delivered?

			I couldn’t even look at my watch. I had all I could do to keep my flashlight trained on the ground and my legs moving forward one step at a time. I wanted to see the night sky slowly growing light. I wanted to drink warm milk, smell the morning trees, and turn the pages of a morning paper. I was sick of the darkness and leeches and holes and Murks. Every organ and muscle and cell of my body hungered for light. Even the faintest light would do—any pitiful scrap of real light other than my flashlight beam.

			When I thought about light, my stomach shriveled up as if it were being clenched in a fist and my mouth filled with the stench of my breath—a smell like a rotting salami pizza.

			“You can barf all you want once we get out of here, but hold on a little longer,” the girl said, gripping my elbow.

			“Okay, I won’t barf,” I groaned.

			“You have to believe,” she said. “We’ll get through all this. You’re right: when it rains, it pours. But the downpour has to end eventually. It can’t go on forever.”

			“I believe you,” I said.

			But the holes felt as if they would go on forever. We seemed to be circling around, covering the same ground over and over. I thought about a freshly printed morning paper again—the ink on my fingers, the thick pile of advertising circulars. The morning paper carried everything—every single thing regarding the conduct of life above ground, from the prime minister’s wake-up time to stock market reports, family suicides, midnight-snack recipes, skirt lengths, record reviews, and real-estate ads.

			I didn’t take a newspaper anymore, though. I had gotten out of the habit three years earlier for some reason—probably because I was living my life in a sphere that had nothing to do with news articles or TV shows. My only involvements with people took place where I would knead the figures they had given me and convert them in my head into a different form. I spent the rest of my time alone reading old-fashioned novels, watching videos of old Hollywood films, and drinking beer and whiskey, so I had no need to read newspapers or magazines.

			In this incomprehensible darkness, however, surrounded by thousands of holes and thousands of leeches, I had a strong desire to read the morning edition—to sit in the sunshine and read every last word of the paper from one end to the other like a cat licking every last drop of milk in a saucer. I would physically absorb varied fragments of the life that the people of the world were living under the sun and so refresh each and every cell of my body.

			“There’s the altar,” she said.

			I tried to look up, but I couldn’t raise my face while trying to keep my feet from slipping. It didn’t matter what the altar looked like if we couldn’t reach it. I concentrated hard on taking every step with care.

			“Another ten meters or so,” the girl said.

			At that very moment, the whistling sound rising from the holes came to a sudden, unnatural stop, as if someone underground had swung a gigantic sharp axe and severed the sound at its source with a single stroke. With neither warning nor resonance, the ragged whistle that had long been surging powerfully upward from the depths of the earth instantaneously switched off, less as if the sound had faded than as if the space containing the sound had itself ceased to exist. This happened so suddenly, it made me lose my balance for a moment and nearly slip down.

			An almost painful silence descended over everything. The silence that materialized so suddenly in the darkness was far more ominous than even the eeriest, most annoying sound. We can take a stance in relation to a sound, whatever it might be, but silence is nothing: it’s zero. It surrounds us but it doesn’t exist. A vaguely oppressive feeling arose in my ears like a change in air pressure. Unable to withstand the sudden change, my ear muscles increased their power and tried to read some kind of signal in the silence.

			But the silence was total. Once the sound broke off, it never came back on. The girl and I both froze, straining to hear anything in the silence. I tried swallowing to release the pressure on my ears but without effect: my ears rang with the exaggerated sound of a phonograph needle striking the edge of a turntable.

			“Has the water receded?” I asked.

			“Just the opposite: now is when it’s going to spurt out,” she said. “The rushing air we heard before was the sound of the air backed up in the twisted water channels being forced out by the pressure of the rising water. Now that all the air has been forced out, there’s nothing left to block the water.”

			She took my hand and stepped over the remaining holes. Was it my imagination or had the number of leeches moving over the bedrock dropped somewhat? After passing over another five or six holes, we came out again to a flat, open area without holes or leeches. The leeches seemed to have escaped in the opposite direction from us. We had succeeded in getting through the worst of it. Even if a flood surged up and drowned us, it would be far better than falling into the leech holes and dying there.

			Almost unconsciously, I reached up to brush away the leeches stuck to the back of my neck, but the girl grabbed my arm and stopped me.

			“Leave that for later,” she said. “We’ve got to climb the tower first or we’ll drown.” Still holding my arm, she hurried ahead. “A few leeches can’t kill you. Besides, if you yank at them, you’ll tear the skin off. Didn’t you know that?”

			“No, I didn’t,” I said, dumb as an anchor in the dark sea below a channel marker.

			Twenty or thirty paces farther on, she stopped me with firm pressure on my arm and trained her big flashlight on the huge tower that soared above us just ahead. It was a smooth, featureless cylinder that shot straight up into the darkness, narrowing as it rose, like a lighthouse, though I couldn’t tell how high it went. It was too big for her to catch its entire structure in the flashlight beam, and we didn’t have time to try. She swept the light over it once and ran to it without a word, starting up the stairwaylike structure fastened to its side. I hurried to catch up with her.

			Viewed at some distance in poor light, the tower had appeared to be a magnificent, finely crafted monument that people had spent ages constructing, but a touch of the hand revealed what a crude, lopsided lump of rock it was, a product of chance and natural erosion.

			The spiral “stairway” that the Murks had carved around the circumference of their rocky lump was hardly worth calling that. The steps were uneven and irregular and barely wide enough for a single foot—when they were not missing entirely. The nearest protruding rock had to serve when a step was not there, but because we had to keep both hands busy grabbing on to the rock face to avoid falling, we couldn’t use our flashlights to check each step and therefore often missed our footing and had to catch ourselves. This would have been no problem for the Murks, who could see in the dark, but for us it could hardly have been more frightening and difficult. Plastering ourselves against the rock face, we had to creep along like lizards, one careful step at a time.

			I was on the thirty-sixth step—counting steps is an old habit of mine—when I heard a strange sound cut through the darkness below us, as if someone had flung a giant roast beef against the tower’s rock wall. It was a flat, moist—and decisive—sound, followed by a momentary silence as if a drummer swinging his stick downward had paused for one beat in midair. That was an eerie moment of silence. Something was coming. I clung to the rock wall and waited, hands fastened onto a projecting stone.

			What came next was the unmistakable sound of water—a simultaneous upward gush coming from the numberless holes we had passed. Nor was there anything half-hearted about the sheer volume of water. I remembered a newsreel I had seen when I was still in elementary school of a dam-opening ceremony. A governor or some such official wearing a helmet pushed a button on a machine to open the floodgates and thick columns of water spurted far out into space with a roar and clouds of spray. This was back in the day when they used to show newsreels and cartoons in movie theaters. I remembered the rush of horror my boyish heart experienced when I imagined what would happen to me if, for some reason, I had to be standing beneath the dam when it released that overpowering gush of water. Of course, it never occurred to me that, a quarter century later, I might actually be in such a position. Children tend to believe they are protected in the end from most of the world’s disasters by some divine power. Or at least for me childhood was like that.

			“How high do you think the water is going to come?” I called out to the girl, who was two or three steps above me.

			“High,” she answered curtly. “If we want to get out of this, we should climb as high as possible. All I know is it won’t rise to the very top.”

			“How many steps are there to the very top?”

			“A lot!” Great answer.

			We continued on up the tower’s spiral with all the speed we could muster. Judging from the sound of the water, the tower to which we were clinging seemed to rise straight up from the center of a wide-open plain, where it was surrounded by leech holes. If so, we were now coming closer and closer to the pinnacle of a kind of decorative pole that had been erected in the middle of a gigantic fountain. And if her theory was correct, the empty plazalike space was now inundated like a swamp, in the middle of which the top half or tip of the tower was left as an island surrounded by water.

			Dangling from the strap strung over her shoulder, her flashlight waved erratically, its beam tracing random figures in the darkness. I stayed focused on the light as I continued to climb. I had lost count of the steps, but I must have mounted a hundred and fifty or two hundred of them. The sound of water had changed from the violent impact of water against rock we had heard at first as water fell through the air to crash against bedrock, and now it was merely the gurgling, muffled flow of water into water like the plunging of a waterfall into the deep pool at its base. The water level was unquestionably rising. We couldn’t see our feet, so it was impossible to tell how high the surface had come, but I would not have been surprised if, at any moment, cold water had washed over my ankles.

			Every bit of this experience resembled the kind of unpleasant dream you have when you’re feeling sick: something was chasing after me, but my feet wouldn’t carry me forward and the “something” was just behind me, trying to grab my ankles with its slimy hands. This would have been bad enough as a dream with no hope of escape, but it was even worse in reality. Ignoring the steps, I grabbed on to the rocks with both hands and tried to swing myself forward.

			Suddenly the thought crossed my mind: why didn’t we just let the water rise up and lift us while we swam on the surface? That would be a lot easier than climbing, and we wouldn’t have to worry about falling. The more I studied the idea, the better it seemed to me—for a brainstorm of mine.

			“Impossible,” the girl said as soon as I shared the thought with her. “Strong currents are swirling under the surface, and if you got caught in one of those, you’d never be able to swim. You’d probably never make it back to the surface, and if by any chance you did, you couldn’t swim to anyplace in this total darkness.”

			Finally, as frustrating as it was to keep climbing to the top, one step at a time, that was all we could do.

			The water’s sound dropped in pitch like a motor slowing down bit by bit until it had changed to a dull moan. The water level rose without a break. If only there were some decent light, I thought, even if it were dim. If I had some decent light, I could easily climb to the top of this rock pile, I could check to see how high the water had come, and I could be freed from the nightmarish terror of not knowing when slimy hands might reach out of the darkness at any moment and grab my ankles. I loathed the darkness with my whole heart. The water was not what was pursuing me: it was the darkness that lay between the water’s surface and my ankles. That darkness was breathing a cold, bottomless terror into my body.

			The newsreel was still spinning in my brain. The gigantic arched dam on the screen continued to spew water down into its conical base. Movie cameras captured the event from every angle: from above, head-on, from the side, the lenses all but lapping up the gushing water, the shadow of the arching stream cast upon the dam’s concrete wall. The water’s shadow danced over the smooth, white concrete as if it were the water itself. Staring at that shadow, I felt it change into my own shadow. My shadow was dancing over the arched dam wall. I sat in the movie theater’s seat, staring at my shadow. I knew immediately that it was my own shadow, but I didn’t know what action I should take toward it as a member of the audience. I was a helpless nine- or ten-year-old boy. Maybe I should have rushed up to the screen and taken my shadow back, or perhaps I should have charged into the projection booth and snatched the film, but I couldn’t judge whether either of those was a proper thing to do. So I did nothing but go on sitting there and watching my shadow.

			My shadow kept dancing on and on before me, swaying and wriggling like a soft, distant heat shimmer, seemingly unable either to speak or to convey any message through hand gestures, but undoubtedly trying to tell me something. He knew that I was sitting there and watching him, but, like me, he was helpless. He was just a shadow.

			No other members of the audience seemed to realize that the shadow of the spurting water on the dam wall was mine. My big brother was sitting right next to me, but even he failed to realize it was my shadow—because he certainly would have whispered it to me if he had. He was always a noisy whisperer at the movies.

			Neither did I tell anyone that it was my shadow. I was sure they wouldn’t have believed me. Besides, I could see that my shadow was trying to convey its message to me alone. Through the medium of the screen, he was trying to tell me something from another time and another place.

			My shadow was all alone on the curved wall of the dam, abandoned by everyone. I had no idea how he had found his way there or what he planned to do from here on out. Eventually, the darkness would come and swallow him up. Or else he might be swept away by the torrent and end up in the ocean, where he would do his job as my shadow once again. The thought made me terribly sad.

			The dam news ended suddenly and switched to the coronation of some country’s king. A team of horses with fancy headgear was pulling a beautiful carriage across a stone-paved plaza. I looked for a new version of my shadow on the ground but saw only shadows of horses and buildings.

			My memory ended there. I couldn’t tell, however, whether it was something that had actually happened to me, for never once in my life, until this moment, had I recalled such an event as a past memory. It might well have been a mental image I created just now while listening to the sound of water in this strange darkness. I had read about such mental phenomena years before in a psychology book. Trapped in extreme circumstances, it said, people will often spin daydreams in their heads to protect themselves from harsh reality. But that image I had seen had been too detailed and vivid, too powerfully bound up with my very existence, to have been a made-up mental scene. I could clearly recall the smells and sounds around me then. And inside me I could feel the bewilderment and confusion and impalpable terror that the nine- or ten-year-old me had felt that day. It had actually happened to me, whatever anyone might say. It had been sealed off in the depths of my consciousness by some kind of force, but it had come loose and floated to the surface because of the extreme circumstances into which I had been driven.

			Some kind of force?

			That had almost certainly originated with the brain surgery they had performed to implant my shuffling ability. They had stuffed my memories behind the walls of my consciousness. They had snatched my memories away from me for a long time.

			The more I thought about it, the angrier it made me. No one had the right to steal my memories. They were mine and mine alone. Stealing another’s memories was the same as stealing years of their lives. The more anger I felt, the less attention I paid to my fear. I was going to stay alive no matter what. I was going to survive and escape from this crazy world of darkness and get back every last memory they had stolen from me. The world could end if it wanted to—so what? I would have to be reborn as my total self.

			“A rope!” she suddenly called.

			“A rope?”

			“Come right away! There’s a rope hanging down.”

			Rushing up three or four steps to where she was standing, I stroked the stone wall with my palm. She was right: there was a rope hanging down—not a thick one but a sturdy mountain-climbing rope, its tip at about my chest level. I gave it a little pull and then a stronger tug, cautiously testing its strength. It was firmly anchored to something.

			“It’s my grandfather!” she yelled. “He must have hung this here for us.”

			“Let’s go up one more level to be sure,” I said.

			We did another circuit of the tower’s upward spiral, annoyed at having to check every step. The rope was hanging in the same place, knotted every thirty centimeters for footholds. If it was really attached to the tip of the tower, we could save a lot of time.

			“My grandfather did this, I’m sure of it! He thinks of everything.”

			“He really does,” I said. “Can you climb a rope?”

			“Of course,” she said. “I’ve always been good at it, ever since I was a little kid. Didn’t I tell you that?”

			“You first, then,” I said. “Flash your light when you get to the top. Then I’ll start up.”

			“The water’ll come up if we do that. Shouldn’t we climb together?” she asked.

			“One climber, one rope is the rule in mountain climbing. You have to think about the strength of the rope. Plus, it’s harder to climb if you’ve got two people hanging on to the same rope, and it takes that much longer. Besides, even if the water comes, as long as you’re holding on to the rope, you should be able to make it to the top.”

			“You’re braver than you look,” she said.

			I waited in the darkness, expecting her to kiss me again, but she just left me there and slithered up the rope. With my hands on a rock, I watched her flashlight swinging wildly as it rose overhead, looking like a drunken spirit staggering back to heaven. The sight made me thirsty for a good slug of whiskey, but the bottle was in my backpack, and there was no way I could maintain my shaky footing while twisting to remove the pack in the dark and pulling the bottle out. So I gave up on the drink and decided instead to imagine myself enjoying a whiskey, a double on the rocks with a bowl of nuts at a clean, quiet bar where the MJQ’s “Vendôme” was playing at low volume. I set the glass on the bar and studied it a while, which is how whiskey should be savored: you look at it until you’re tired of looking, and then you drink it, like enjoying a pretty girl.

			My thoughts had come this far when it occurred to me that I no longer owned a suit or a blazer. That crazy duo had slashed all my decent clothing to bits. Well, then, what should I wear to the bar? I’d have to make clothes before I left the house. I decided on a dark-blue tweed suit—an elegant blue in a traditional style with three buttons, natural shoulders and full cut, like something George Peppard wore in the early sixties. Blue shirt perfectly matching the suit, the blue slightly weathered in a heavy Oxford broadcloth, the most ordinary kind of regular collar. Striped tie in red and green—muted red, green like a stormy sea, hard to tell whether it’s blue or green. I put the outfit together in a stylish men’s shop and wear it to a bar somewhere, order a double Scotch on the rocks. Let the damn leeches and Murks and clawed fish go wild in their damn subterranean world while I drink my whiskey from Scotland in the surface world wearing my dark-blue tweed suit.

			Suddenly I noticed the sound of water was gone. Maybe the water had stopped gushing up from the holes. Or possibly the water level had just risen so high it was blocking the sound. I didn’t care which was true. The water could rise all it wanted to. I had made up my mind to survive no matter what. And I would get my memories back. Nobody could push me around anymore. I wanted to shout it to the whole world: “Nobody can push me around anymore!”

			I couldn’t see what good it would do for me to shout my head off while clinging to a rock in this underground darkness, so I gave up on the idea and instead cocked my neck to look up. The girl was much higher up than I had expected her to be. I couldn’t tell how many meters she had climbed, but it probably amounted to three or four department-store floors’ worth. She was up in women’s wear or kimono fitting. How high was this damn mountain, anyway? I had already climbed quite a ways with her, but if there was still a lot more to go, it had to be a very high hill of rock. On a whim, I had once climbed the stairs of a twenty-six-story building, and this rock climb seemed at least that high.

			If anything, I was better off being unable to see below me in the darkness. Accustomed though I was to climbing mountains, clinging precariously to a height like this with no equipment other than ordinary tennis shoes, I would have been too scared to look down. I might as well have been halfway up a skyscraper washing windows without a lifeline or scaffolding. I had been fine as long as I was mindlessly scrambling up and up without a break, but once I had come to a stop, the thought began to weigh on me that I was very high up.

			I twisted my neck again and looked overhead. Judging by the continued wobbling of her light, she was still climbing, but now she was moving even farther up. She was probably as good at rope climbing as she herself had said. But what a ridiculous height! Why did the old man have to choose such an extreme place to hide? If he could have just settled into a simple, straightforward location and waited patiently for us to arrive, it would have saved us all these ordeals.

			I was toying with such thoughts when I seemed to hear a voice far above me. I looked up to see a little yellow light slowly flashing on and off like an airplane’s taillight. She had apparently made it all the way to the top. I grasped the rope with one hand and pulled the flashlight from my pocket with the other, sending the same kind of signal aloft. While I was at it, I aimed the light downward to check how high the water level might have risen, but I could see hardly anything in its weak beam. In such dense darkness, you had to be very close to something if you wanted to know what you were looking at. My watch said it was 4:12 a.m. The night still hadn’t ended. The morning paper still hadn’t been delivered. The subways still weren’t running. Up on the surface, people were supposed to be sound asleep, knowing nothing.

			I took the rope in both hands, took a deep breath, and slowly started climbing.





24


			End of the World


			Shadow Square


			I woke that morning to find that three days of perfect weather had ended. An unbroken layer of thick, dark cloud covered the sky, and the sunlight that managed to penetrate it as far as the earth had been stripped of nearly all its light and warmth. Into the muffled, chilly, dull-gray light, the trees thrust their leafless branches like gashes in the sky, and the river resounded with a hard crackling. Snow might fall at any moment from the shifting clouds, but none was dropping yet.

			“It’s probably not going to snow today,” the old man said to me. “Those are not snow clouds.”

			I opened the window and looked up at the sky again, but I couldn’t tell the difference between snow clouds and any other clouds.



* * *



			—

			Gatekeeper was sitting in front of his big iron stove, warming his feet with his shoes off. His was the same type of stove as the library’s, with two pot rests on top, an ash drawer in the bottom, and two large handles on the cabinet front. Gatekeeper sat in a chair, resting his feet on the handles. The room was stuffy with cheap pipe smoke—probably from imitation tobacco—and steam from a kettle. The smell of his feet was certainly part of the mix. Behind his chair stood a large wooden table lined with whetstones and hatchets and adzes, the handles of which were discolored from heavy use.

			“I’m here about a scarf,” I began. “My neck gets cold without one.”

			“I would imagine so,” Gatekeeper said. “I’m not surprised.”

			“In the materials room far back in the library, there are clothes that nobody is using. I was thinking maybe I could use some of them.”

			“Oh, those?” Gatekeeper said. “Sure, feel free to use any of them—scarves, coats, take whatever you want.”

			“Don’t they have owners?”

			“No worry. Any owners forgot about that stuff long ago,” Gatekeeper said. “By the way, I understand you’re looking for musical instruments.”

			I nodded. He knew everything.

			“As a rule, we don’t have musical instruments in this town,” he said. “Which is not to say there are none at all. You’re such a serious worker, it wouldn’t hurt for you to have an instrument. Ask the power-plant Caretaker, he’ll find you one.”

			“The power plant?” I asked, surprised.

			“We do have a power plant,” Gatekeeper said, pointing to the lightbulb overhead. “Where do you think our electricity comes from? The apple trees?”

			Gatekeeper smiled and drew me a map to the power plant. “You take the road on the south side of the river and walk far upstream. In about half an hour, you’ll see the old granary on the right-hand side. You can tell—the roof and doors are gone. You turn right at that corner and follow the road a little way. Then you’ll come to a hill, and on the other side of the hill is the Forest. Go into the Forest and walk another five hundred meters to the power plant. Got it?”

			“I think so,” I said. “But isn’t it dangerous to go into the Forest in winter? Everybody says so. And I had a bad experience there.”

			“Oh, you’re right, I forgot about that. I took you up your hill in my wagon,” Gatekeeper said. “Are you well now?”

			“I’m fine,” I said. “Thank you.”

			“Did you learn a bit of a lesson?”

			“Yes, I did.”

			Gatekeeper grinned and shifted his feet on the stove handles. “It’s good to learn a lesson the hard way. It makes you cautious. If you’re cautious, you don’t get injured. A good woodcutter has exactly one scar—no more, no less. You see what I mean?”

			I nodded.

			“You don’t have to worry about the power plant, though. It’s just inside the Forest entrance, and there’s only one road, so you can’t get lost. You don’t have to meet any of the Forest dwellers, either. The only dangerous places are the Forest interior and by the wall. If you avoid those, you have nothing to worry about. Just make absolutely sure you don’t turn off the road, and don’t go past the power plant. Then you’d just have another bad experience.”

			“Is the power plant Caretaker one of the Forest dwellers?”

			“No, not him. He’s different from the Forest dwellers and different from the townspeople, too. He’s stuck in the middle—can’t go into the Forest and can’t go back to the town. He’s not harmful, but kind of gutless.”

			“What are the people like who live in the Forest?”

			Gatekeeper cocked his head and looked at me for a while in silence. “I told you when I first met you, you’re free to ask any questions you like, but I’m free to answer them or not.”

			I nodded.

			“Anyhow, this is one I don’t want to answer,” Gatekeeper said. “Which reminds me, you’ve been telling me you want to see your shadow. How about now? He’s gotten a little weaker since the start of winter. It wouldn’t hurt to bring you two together.”

			“Is he sick?”

			“No, he’s doing fine. I’m letting him out and making sure he gets his exercise a few hours every day, and he has a terrific appetite. But when the days get shorter and colder, any shadow will lose a little something. It’s nobody’s fault, not mine or yours, just a law of nature. Anyhow, I’m going to let you see him, so ask him yourself.”

			Gatekeeper took down the bunch of keys he had hanging on the wall, crammed it into his jacket pocket, and pulled on his rugged lace-up boots, yawning. The boots looked tremendously heavy, and their soles had iron spikes for walking in the snow.

			My shadow lived in the so-called midpoint between the town and the outer world. I was not allowed into the outer world, and my shadow could not enter the town. For that reason, “Shadow Square” was the one designated place where people who had lost their shadows and shadows who had lost their people were able to meet. It lay outside the back door of the gatehouse. It was not as broad an open space as one might imagine from the name, perhaps a little larger than the yard of an ordinary house, and it was surrounded by a secure iron fence.

			Gatekeeper pulled his keys from his pocket and unlocked the iron gate, letting me in first and then coming in himself. The square was a perfect square in shape, the far side of which was enclosed by the town’s wall. In the very center stood an old elm tree, beneath which a simple bench had been set. The whitened elm could have been alive or dead.

			A make-do shelter of old bricks and scrap lumber stood over in the corner by the wall. Its window had no glass but, instead, a wooden panel that swung up to open. Seeing no chimney, I assumed the place had no heat.

			“Your shadow sleeps in there,” Gatekeeper said. “It’s not as uncomfortable as it looks. It’s got running water and a toilet at least, and a cellar that keeps the drafts out. It’s no hotel, but it offers plenty of protection from the wind and rain. Have a look inside?”

			“No, I’d rather meet him out here,” I said. The terrible stench inside the gatehouse had given me a headache. Though it was a little cold, I much preferred the fresh outside air.

			“Fine, I’ll bring him out,” Gatekeeper said, entering the shelter alone.

			I raised my coat collar and sat on the bench under the elm tree, scraping at the ground with the heel of my shoe while I waited for my shadow. The ground was hard and dotted with frozen patches of snow. Snow remained unmelted in the shade at the foot of the wall.

			Gatekeeper came out of the shelter a few minutes later ahead of my shadow. He crossed the square with long strides, the spikes of his boots crunching the frozen ground, and my shadow came slowly after him, hardly the picture of health that Gatekeeper had described, his face somewhat drawn now, his eyes and beard newly prominent.

			“I’ll give you some time to yourselves,” Gatekeeper said. “You must have a lot of catching up to do. Have a nice, long talk—but not too long. If you end up stuck together again, I’ll just have to pull you apart, and that could be time-consuming. It wouldn’t do you one bit of good—or me, either. See what I mean?”

			I nodded as if to say I agreed with him. He was probably right. He’d just have to pull us apart if we joined up again, and we’d have to start everything from scratch.

			My shadow and I followed Gatekeeper with our eyes as he locked the gate and disappeared into the gatehouse. His spikes crunched away from us, and the heavy wooden door of the gatehouse closed with a bang. Once Gatekeeper was gone, my shadow sat next to me on the bench. Like me, he dug at the ground with his heel. He wore a coarse woolen sweater, work pants, and the old work shoes I had given him.

			“How’re you doing?” I asked.

			“How do you think?” he said. “It’s so damn cold, and the food’s terrible.”

			“I heard you’re exercising every day.”

			“Exercising?” he said with a sneer. “Oh, that, if you call it exercise. He drags me out of here every day and makes me help him burn beasts. We pile the bodies up in his cart and haul them outside to Apple Wood, where we pour oil on them and burn them. Before we burn them, he chops the heads off. You’ve seen that fantastic collection of blades of his, haven’t you? The guy’s out of his mind. If they let him, he’d chop off every head he could find.”

			“He’s one of the townspeople, isn’t he?”

			“No, no way. I think they hire him to do that. He enjoys burning beasts. The townspeople would never think to do it themselves. Since winter came, we’ve burned a ton of them. Three died this morning. We’ve got to go burn them after this.”

			My shadow watched me scraping at the frozen ground with my heel and did the same. The ground was as hard as a rock. Winter birds shrieked in the elm tree and flew off somewhere.

			“I found the map,” my shadow said. “You drew it better than I had expected. Good notes, too. It was a little late, though.”

			“I was sick for a while,” I said.

			“So I heard. It was too late after winter got here. I wanted it earlier. Then things would have worked out much better, and I could have finished my plan sooner.”

			“Your plan?”

			“My escape plan, obviously. What other kind of plan could I have? You think I wanted a map just for the fun of it?”

			I shook my head. “I was hoping you’d tell me the meaning of this strange town. You took practically all my memories with you when you left me.”

			“You’re wrong about that,” my shadow said. “True, I do have most of your memories, but I can’t put them to any use. For that, we’d have to be rejoined, and there’s no way that can happen. If we tried, they’d separate us permanently, and that would be the end of any plan. So I’m thinking by myself—about the meaning of this town.”

			“Have you figured anything out?”

			“A little, but I can’t tell you yet. I’ve got to get the details straight to make it convincing. Let me think about it some more. I might be on the verge of figuring it out. By then it might be too late, though. I’ve been growing weaker ever since winter started, so even if my plan comes together, I might not have the physical strength to carry it off. That’s why I wanted this map before winter.”

			I looked up at the elm tree. Streaks of dark winter cloud showed among its thick branches.

			“We’ll never be able to escape from this place, though,” I said. “You’ve seen the map. The town has no exits. This is the End of the World. We can’t go back, and we can’t go forward.”

			“It may be the End of the World, but it has to have an exit. I’m sure of it. It’s written in the sky: ‘There is an exit.’ The birds fly over the wall, right? Where do they fly to? To the outside world. There is definitely another world outside the wall: that’s why the wall exists. It surrounds the town to keep the people from getting out. If there were nothing outside, there would be no need to build the wall around the town. There has to be an exit somewhere.”

			“Maybe so,” I said.

			“I’m definitely going to find it and escape with you. I don’t want to die in this miserable place.”

			My shadow then fell silent and dug at the ground again.

			“I think I told you at the beginning, this town is unnatural and wrong,” my shadow said. “And I still believe it: it’s unnatural and it’s wrong. The problem is, in its very unnaturalness and wrongness, it’s perfect. Every single thing in it is unnatural and distorted, as a result of which it comes together as one seamless whole. It’s perfect, like this—”

			With the heel of his shoe, my shadow traced a round figure on the ground.

			“The ends of a circle meet to form a single shape. If you stay in this place a long time, thinking about things, you gradually start to feel that they are right and you yourself are probably wrong. They look absolutely perfect. Do you see what I’m saying?”

			“I really do,” I said. “I often feel that way myself.”

			“Then you’d be wrong,” my shadow said, tracing a meaningless figure next to the circle. “We’re the right ones, and they’re the wrong ones. We’re natural, and they’re unnatural. You’ve got to believe that with all your might. Otherwise, this town will swallow you before you know it, and once that happens, it’ll be too late.”

			“But finally, it’s all relative, what’s right and what’s wrong. And in my case, my memories—the very things I should be able to use as a benchmark to tell one from the other—have been snatched away from me.”

			My shadow nodded. “I see how confused you are. But think of it like this. Do you believe in the existence of perpetual motion?”

			“No, perpetual motion is theoretically impossible.”

			“The perfection of this town is like that. Perfection is the same as perpetual motion. There’s no such thing as a perfect world: it’s a theoretical impossibility. But this place is perfect. Meaning, there has to be a trick to it, the way an apparent perpetual-motion machine is actually using a hidden source of power to keep spinning.”

			“Have you found the town’s trick?”

			“No, not yet. As I said to you before, I have my theory, but I still have to prove it. I need the supporting details. It’s going to take me a little longer.”

			“Can you tell me your theory? Maybe I can help a little with the proof.”

			My shadow took his hands out of his pockets, breathed on them for warmth, and rubbed them together on his lap.

			“No, I’m sure it’s too much for you. I’m physically debilitated, but your debility is in the heart. The very first thing we have to do is for you to fix that. Otherwise, there’s no escaping for either of us. I’ll think about it on my own, and you do everything you can to save yourself. That’s the most important thing.”

			“It’s true I’m confused,” I said, dropping my gaze to the circle on the ground. “You’re right about that. I can’t see where I need to go from here. And I don’t know what kind of person I used to be. How strong can a heart be that has lost sight of the self? Especially here, in this powerful town with its unshakable values? I’ve been losing confidence in my own heart bit by bit ever since winter came.”

			“No, you’re wrong,” my shadow said, “you haven’t lost sight of your self. It’s just that your memories have been cleverly hidden. That’s why you get confused. But you’re not mistaken. You have to believe in your own power. Otherwise, an external power will take over and drag you off to who knows where.”

			“I’ll do my best,” I said.

			My shadow nodded and looked at the overcast sky for a time, eventually closing his eyes as if in deep thought. “I always look at the birds when I’m confused,” he said. “Then I know I’m not mistaken. The birds don’t give a damn about the town’s perfection. Or the wall or the gate or the ram’s horn. You should look at the birds, too, when you’re confused.”

			I heard Gatekeeper calling me at the locked entrance of the enclosure. Visiting time was over.

			“Don’t come and see me for a while,” my shadow whispered to me as we parted. “I’ll work something out so we can get together when necessary. Gatekeeper’s such a suspicious guy, he’ll think we’re up to something if we meet too often, and if he starts snooping around, that makes it harder for me to get anything done. If he asks you, just pretend we didn’t get along too well. All right?”

			“All right,” I said.



* * *



			—

			“How’d it go?” Gatekeeper asked when I got back to his gatehouse.

			“Was it fun to see your shadow after such a long time apart?”

			“I’m not so sure,” I said, shaking my head.

			“That’s how it goes,” Gatekeeper said, looking pleased.





25


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Meal, Elephant Factory, Trap


			Climbing the rope was much easier than climbing the steps. It had nice, tight knots every thirty centimeters, and the rope itself was the perfect thickness to feel comfortable in the hands. Grasping the rope in both hands, I swung back and forth against the tower as I sprang upward from one knot to the next. It was like a scene from a trapeze movie. Of course, trapeze ropes didn’t have knots, which would make the action less thrilling for the audience.

			I looked up every now and then, but because her light was aimed straight down at me, the glare kept me from judging the distance I had to climb. She was probably watching my every move, worried for my safety. My belly cut was still throbbing painfully with each beat of my heart, and my head still hurt from the bang I gave it when I fell. Neither pain was bad enough to interfere with my climbing, but they hurt.

			The closer I came to the top, the brighter her light grew on me and my surroundings, though she wasn’t doing me any favors. By then I was so used to climbing in the dark, the light threw me off and made me miss my footing several times. I couldn’t tell the distance between light and shadow areas since lighted objects stood out more and shaded objects looked more sunken than they really were. Besides, the glare was painful. The human body quickly accustoms itself to any kind of surroundings. It seemed only natural to assume that the Murks might well have changed their physical functionality to suit the darkness after descending into the underground long ago.

			Sixty or seventy knots up, I seemed to have reached the summit. I hooked both arms over the edge of the rock and pulled myself up like a swimmer crawling out of a pool. After the long rope climb, it took quite a while for my exhausted arms to pull me all the way up. I felt as if I had just swum a kilometer or two. She grabbed my belt and helped me climb.

			“What a close call!” she said. “Four or five minutes later, and we both would have died.”

			“Whoa,” I said, stretching out on the flat rock and taking a few deep breaths. “How high did the water come?”

			She laid her flashlight on the ground and slowly pulled the rope up, handing it to me at around knot thirty. It was soaking wet at that point, meaning the water had risen to a high level. She was right: if we had reached the rope another four or five minutes later, we would have been in danger.

			“By the way, have you found your grandfather?” I asked.

			“Yes, of course,” she said. “He’s inside the inner altar. But he sprained an ankle. He says he jammed his foot in a pit when he was running away.”

			“You mean he came this far with a sprained ankle?”

			“Toughness runs in the family.”

			“So it seems,” I said. I thought of myself as physically tough, but I was no match for them.

			“Let’s go. Grandfather is waiting inside. He says he has a lot to talk to you about.”

			“Me, too,” I said.

			I swung my backpack on again and followed her to the altar, which turned out to be nothing but a round cave we entered through an opening in the rock wall. Inside, the cave was like a large room. A lamp powered by a gas canister set in a niche in the wall sent out a dim yellow glow. The uneven rock walls cast hundreds of grotesque shadows everywhere. The Doctor sat next to the lamp wrapped in a blanket, half his face in dark shadow. The lamp gave his eyes a sunken look, but in fact he was a model of vitality.

			“Hello there, young man, I am told you had a close call.” He seemed happy to see me. “I knew the water would be coming up, but I thought you would arrive here sooner, so I was not too worried about it.”

			“I got lost in the city, Grandpa,” the fat girl said. “I was a whole day late meeting up with him.”

			“Oh, well, never mind, it is fine either way,” the Doctor said. “Late or not, it amounts to the same thing.”

			“What is it that ‘amounts to the same thing’?” I asked.

			“Now, now, we can discuss such complicated matters later. Just have a seat. First we should take that leech off your neck. Otherwise, you will have a scar.”

			I sat on the ground a little away from the Doctor, and his granddaughter sat next to me. She took some matches out of her pocket, struck one, and burnt off the giant leech that was clinging to my neck. Gorged with blood, the leech had swollen to the thickness of a wine cork. It sizzled in the match flame and squirmed on the ground for a while until she squashed it under her running shoes. The skin of my neck retained the tight stinging sensation of a burn, and when I turned my head as far as it would go to the left, I felt as if the flesh would burst open like an overripe tomato. If I had kept up this lifestyle for a few more days, my whole body might have served as a catalog of wounds. We could have printed up a full-color edition of shots like the athlete’s-foot photos you see in drugstore windows and distributed them to everyone. In addition to my belly cut, the bump on my head, and the bruise left by the sucking leech, we could have included an illustration of my erectile dysfunction just to make it more awful.

			“Tell me, young man, did you happen to bring anything to eat?” the Doctor asked me. “I was in such a hurry to get out, I had no time to pack enough food. I have eaten nothing since yesterday but a little chocolate.”

			I opened my backpack, took out a few cans, my bread, and my water bottle, and handed them to the Doctor with a can opener. The first thing he did was take an eager drink of water from the bottle, after which he carefully studied each of the cans as though checking the vintage years on bottles of wine. Then he opened the peaches and the corned beef.

			“Would the two of you like to have something?” he asked. We declined. This was neither the time nor the place for an appetite.

			He tore off a piece of bread, mounted a chunk of corned beef on it, and downed them with gusto. Next, he ate several peaches and slurped the juice straight from the can. Meanwhile, I pulled the bottle from my pocket and took a few slugs of whiskey. The alcohol eased my various pains somewhat—not that it actually made them hurt less, but, by numbing my nerves, it made me feel as if each pain had taken on a life of its own separate from me.

			“Ah, that was truly a life saver,” the Doctor said. “I always keep two or three days’ worth of food here in case of emergencies, but I was careless this time and let my supply run out. I should be ashamed of myself. When life gets too easy, you let your guard down. Think of it as a good lesson. You know what they say: ‘Make hay while the sun shines’! People had a way with words in the old days.”

			The Doctor enjoyed one of his usual “ho-ho-ho”s.

			“Now that you’re through eating,” I said, “let’s get down to business. Can I ask you to begin at the beginning and tell me everything in order? What were you trying to accomplish? What did you accomplish? What will the results be? What should I do? The whole thing.”

			“This could be fairly technical,” he said with some hesitation.

			“That’s all right. Just simplify it for me. All I need to understand is the overall outline and a concrete description of the steps involved.”

			“I hesitate to tell you everything. It might make you angry with me…”

			“I won’t get angry,” I said. It wouldn’t do any good to start getting angry at this point.

			“Well, first of all, I should apologize to you,” the Doctor said. “Though it was for the sake of my research, the fact is I deceived you and exploited you and put you into an impossible situation, and for that I have been doing some serious soul searching. This is not just lip service. I am truly and sincerely sorry for what I have done. The one thing I want you to see, however, is that the research I have been doing is absolutely unique, important, and valuable. Set a vein of knowledge in front of a scientist, and he loses sight of anything else. That is what has been responsible for the incessant progress of science over the centuries. I might go so far as to say that science has proliferated precisely because of its purity. You…uh…have read Plato, perhaps?”

			“Hardly any,” I said. “But can you get to the point? I see what you mean about the purity of scientific research.”

			“I am sorry, I just wanted to say that the purity of science can sometimes injure a great many people—the same way that all pure natural phenomena can injure people in some cases. A volcanic eruption buries a town, a flood sweeps people away, an earthquake smashes everything standing on the ground, but are such natural phenomena evil, you might ask—”

			“Grandpa,” the fat girl chimed in from the side. “We’ll never make it on time if you don’t speed this up a little.”

			“Oh, right, right,” the Doctor said, taking her hand in his and giving it a few little pats. “So, then, uh, where should I start? I am not good at grasping things in order from top to bottom…”

			“You gave me some figures for shuffling, didn’t you? What was the meaning of those?”

			“To explain that, I would have to go back three years.”

			“Please do go back, then,” I said.

			“I was still working in the System’s laboratory in those days, not as a regular member of the research staff but in a so-called individual detachment. I had a staff of four or five working for me, and we had first-rate equipment and all the money we needed. I myself do not care about money, and I refuse to work under anyone merely to make a living, but the System had unrivaled experimental facilities, and I found it impossible to resist the potential there for putting the results of my research into actual practice.

			“The System was in a crisis just then: the Semiotecs had succeeded in cracking the code of every single data-scrambling system the System had devised for data protection. If the System tried to make their method more complex, the Semiotecs would respond with an even more complex method of deciphering it—over and over. It was like a war of the walls: If one house put up a wall, the neighbor would put up a higher wall. After a while, the walls would become too high and lose any utility they might have, but still neither side could afford to withdraw, because that would mean defeat, and the defeated side would lose its reason for being. So then the System decided to develop a data-scrambling method that would be simple and indecipherable and based on a completely different principle. That was when I was invited to become head of the development staff.

			“Choosing me was exactly the right move for them. I was at the time—and still am—the most capable and ambitious scientist in the field of brain physiology. I never wasted my time publishing research papers or lecturing at academic conferences, so I was always ignored by the academy, but no one else could match my depth of knowledge of the brain, which the System knew perfectly well. What they wanted from me was not a mere elaboration or sophistication of existing formulas but a complete turnaround in ways of thinking, something so fundamental and drastic that they could never obtain it from the kind of scholar who works from morning to night in his university laboratory because he has to publish or perish and keep track of his salary. A truly creative scientist has to have total freedom.”

			“But didn’t you give up that freedom when you joined the System?” I asked.

			“Yes, I did,” the Doctor said. “You are absolutely right. And I have been doing some soul searching about that—not regretting, but soul searching. I do not mean to make excuses, but I was aching for a place where I could put my theories into practice. A clear-cut theory had already taken shape in my mind, but I had no way to verify it in actual practice. That is the biggest problem in doing research on the physiology of the human brain. You cannot experiment on animals the way you can in other kinds of physiology. A monkey brain does not have the complex functions that correspond to the depths of the human psyche or memory.”

			“So you experimented on us,” I said. “We were your guinea pigs.”

			“Now, now, please do not jump to conclusions. First let me give you a simple explanation of my theory. Here is a general principle that applies to all secret codes: ‘There is no such thing as a code that cannot be cracked.’ That much is true, because all codes are based on some kind of governing principle, and that principle, no matter how complex or refined it might be, is finally something like a psychological commonality intelligible to most human beings. So if you can understand the principle, you can crack the code. The most reliable code is the book-to-book system in which two people sending each other coded messages have the same edition of the same book and choose their words by page and line number, but if the enemy discovers the right book, that is the end of the game. First of all, you have to keep a copy of the book close at hand. It is simply too dangerous.

			“Which set me to thinking. There is only one perfect code: one in which you scramble the data using a system that no one can understand. In other words, you scramble your data by passing it through a sealed black box and, after processing it, you unscramble it by passing it back through the same black box. Not even the holder of the black box knows what is in it or how it works. He is able to use it, but he does not know what it is. And because he does not know or understand anything, no one can steal the data from him by force. Perfect, is it not?”

			“In other words, the black box is a human being’s deepest psychological layers, correct?”

			“Exactly. Let me explain some more. It is like this: Each individual human being acts according to his or her own principle. No two people are exactly alike. It is a question of identity. And what is a person’s identity? It is his or her unique mental system formed by the accumulation of memories of his or her past experience. More simply stated, it is a person’s heart and mind: the way he or she thinks and feels about everything. There is no one heart and mind shared by everybody. And yet a person has almost no grasp of his or her own mental system. That is true of me and it is true of you. We have—or think we have—a clear grasp of no more than a twentieth or at most a fifteenth of the whole—not even the tip of the iceberg. For example, let me ask you a simple question: Are you brave or are you a coward?”

			“I don’t know,” I answered honestly. “Sometimes I can be brave, but other times I’m a coward. There’s no easy answer.”

			“Mental systems are like that: there are no easy answers. Depending on the situation or what you are dealing with, you are naturally and almost instantaneously choosing a point somewhere between the two extremes of being brave or being cowardly. You have that kind of fine-grained program built into you, but you know almost nothing about the program’s details or contents, because there is no need for you to know. You can go on functioning perfectly well as you yourself even without that knowledge. This is precisely the black box at work. Buried inside our heads, finally, is a gigantic untracked region like an elephants’ graveyard. Aside from outer space, this is humanity’s last terra incognita.

			“No, come to think of it, ‘elephants’ graveyard’ is the wrong term, because it is not a place where dead memories pile up. ‘Elephants’ factory’ might be more correct, because what happens there is that millions of memory and perception fragments are sorted and combined into complex lines which are combined into complex bundles which in turn create the system. It is truly a ‘factory.’ Production is what takes place there. You are the factory boss, of course, but unfortunately, you are unable to visit the place. As with Alice’s Wonderland, you need a special drug to burrow your way in. Really, Lewis Carroll did an excellent job creating that story.”

			“So this means our behavior patterns are determined by commands issued from the elephant factory.”

			“Exactly so,” the old man said. “In other words—”

			“Just a moment, please,” I interrupted him. “Let me ask you a question.”

			“Go right ahead.”

			“I understand what you’ve told me so far, but I can’t follow it all the way from the determination of behavior patterns to the determination of our actions on the most realistic, surface level. For example, isn’t it just my mood on any particular day that determines whether I’m going to drink milk or coffee or tea with my toast?”

			“You are absolutely right,” the Doctor said with a deep nod. “Another problem is that the deep layers of the human mind are constantly changing, like an encyclopedia that puts out a whole new edition every day. In order to stabilize the human mental system, it is necessary to clear up these two problems.”

			“Problems?” I said. “How is either of those a problem? Aren’t we talking about absolutely ordinary human actions?”

			“Now, now,” the Doctor said as if to placate me. “If we follow this much farther, we get into theology—say, the question of determinism and such. Are human actions predetermined by a god, or are they entirely spontaneous? Since the dawn of the modern era, of course, science has emphasized humans’ physiological spontaneity, but if you ask what spontaneity is, no one can give you a decent answer. That is because no one has fully grasped the secret of the elephants’ factory within us. Men like Freud and Jung have published their deductions, but all they did was invent a lot of jargon to enable us to talk about these things. That made things more convenient, but it did nothing to establish human spontaneity. If you ask me, all they did was add a little scholastic color to the science of psychology.”

			The Doctor followed this with another string of “ho-ho-ho”s while the girl and I waited for it to end.

			“I tend to be a realist in most things,” the Doctor continued. “To borrow the old phraseology, ‘Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and unto God the things that are God’s.’ Metaphysics are, finally, nothing but semiotic small talk. There is plenty for us to do in defined areas before we get carried away with such stuff. The question of the black box, for example. We should just leave the black box as-is, untouched, and utilize its black-boxitude for all it is worth. However—” and here he raised one finger—“we have to solve the two problems I mentioned before. One is the role of chance in our actions at the surface level, and the other is changes in the black box that accompany the addition of new experiences. These are by no means easily solved problems, and that is because they are, as you noted before, ordinary human actions. People go on having experiences of one kind or another as long as they live, and those experiences accumulate moment by moment, second by second, inside the body. Commanding a person to stop doing that is tantamount to commanding them to die.

			“So I came up with a hypothesis. What if we were to fix a person’s black box at one point in time? Let it change as much as it liked afterward, but separate from that we would have a black box that remained stationary at that fixed moment, like flash-freezing, and you could call it up in its set form.”

			“Wait a minute,” I said, “that would mean you’d install two different kinds of mental systems in one human being.”

			“Yes, yes,” the old man said, “that is exactly right. You are quick on the uptake. I was right about you all along. You are absolutely right. Mental system A would remain permanently in place while in another phase it would change constantly to A’, A’’, A’’’ and so forth, like keeping a stopped watch in your right pocket and a working watch in your left pocket. You take out whichever one you need at the time. That solves one of our two problems.

			“We can solve the other problem by the same principle. We merely have to cut off the surface-level selectivity of the original mental system, A. Do you see what I mean?”

			“No, I don’t,” I said.

			“We scrape off the surface the same way a dentist can scrape the enamel off a tooth, leaving only the necessary middle element—that is, the core consciousness. This eliminates the possibility of error. Once the surface has been scraped off, we freeze the mental system and drop it into a well. Plop! This is the prototype of the shuffling method. The theory I formulated before I joined the System was largely this.”

			“This calls for brain surgery, doesn’t it?”

			“Brain surgery is necessary,” the Doctor said. “As my research progresses, though, the need will most likely fade away. It should eventually become possible to create the proper conditions by some external procedure such as hypnotism. That is not possible at the current stage, however. Delivering an electrical stimulus to the brain is the only way—artificially changing the flow of the brain’s circuits. Which is not that unusual—just a slight adaptation of the stereotactic surgery currently used on congenital epileptics, canceling out the electrical discharge caused by the abnormality in the brain. Uh, do you mind if I leave out the technical matters?”

			“Please do,” I said. “Just give me the main points.”

			“What it boils down to is this: we set up a junction in the flow of the brain waves, and next to it we implant an electrode and a miniature battery. Then we set up the junction to click back and forth with the input of a special signal.”

			“So you’re telling me I have a battery and electrode like that implanted in my head?”

			“Yes, of course.”

			“Oh, great,” I said.

			“It’s not as unusual or frightening as you might think, though. It is not much bigger than a pea, and many people are walking around with implants like that. I should tell you, too, that your original mental system—the stopped watch, as it were—is a blind circuit. That means you can have absolutely no awareness of the flow of your thoughts when you are inside it. The whole time you are inside that circuit, you will have no idea what you are thinking or doing. If we had not set it up to work that way, there would have been some danger of your modifying your own mental system.”

			“I gather there’s also a problem that the pure core of my consciousness after the surface was scraped away could become irradiated. One of your assistants told me that after my surgery—that radiation can have an intense effect on the human brain.”

			“Yes, that is another possibility, though we had not confirmed it at the time. It was merely guesswork back then, not an experimental certainty but a supposition.

			“You accused us before of experimenting on human subjects, but to tell you the truth, we did do some of that. You Calcutecs are a valuable human resource, so we could not risk putting you in danger from the outset. The System went and found just ten suitable people for us and we operated on them to see what would happen.”

			“What kind of people did they find?”

			“They told us very little about them: they had to be ten healthy young males with no history of mental problems and IQs of at least 120. Who they found and how they found them, we had no idea. The results were fairly good. The junctions worked well in seven out of ten of them, but did not function at all in the other three, either not switching between mental systems or blending the two.”

			“What happened to the ones who got blended systems?”

			“We restored them to normal, of course. They were unharmed. A few problems did crop up while we were training the other seven, though. Some were technical problems, and the others were problems with the test subjects themselves. The first involved confusing call signs for switching the junction. We first assigned random five-digit figures to each one, but for some reason the smell of fresh grape juice triggered the junction to switch in a few of them. We discovered this when we served grape juice at lunch.”

			Beside me, the fat girl tittered, but this was no laughing matter to me. Different smells had begun to bother me after I was modified for shuffling—for example, the way I heard sounds in my head when I smelled her melon-scented cologne. It would be intolerable if your mental system switched every time you caught a certain smell.

			“We solved that problem by interspersing special sound waves between the figures. Certain olfactory responses closely resembled the response triggered by the call sign. Another problem was the fact that, in some individuals, the original mental system would not function even when the junction switched. We studied this from various angles and discovered that those subjects had innate problems with their mental systems. The subject’s core consciousness was qualitatively unstable and weak. He could be healthy and intelligent, but his psychological identity was not well established. Or, conversely, there were cases where the person had insufficient self-control: he was useless to us even if he had enough identity but no order had been imposed upon it. In other words, it became clear to us that suitability was important: mere performance of the surgery did not guarantee that a subject would be capable of shuffling.

			“That left us with only three people. In all three of them, the junction would switch with the designated call sign, and they could perform effective and stable functions using the frozen original mental system. After a month of intensive experimentation on them, we were given the go-ahead.”

			“So then you performed the shuffling modification on us, I suppose?”

			“That is correct. We tested and interviewed close to five hundred Calcutecs and chose twenty-six physically and mentally healthy males of the type with well-established identities and good control over their actions and emotions. That was a demanding job, because tests and interviews alone do not tell you everything you need to know. Next the System compiled a meticulous file on each one of the twenty-six, detailing everything about his upbringing, school records, family, sex life, alcohol consumption…everything. All of you were washed as clean as newborn infants. That is why I know you as well as I know myself.”

			“There’s just one thing I don’t understand,” I said. “I’ve been told that our core consciousnesses—our black boxes—have been stored in the System’s library. How is such a thing possible?”

			“We traced every last detail of your mental systems, made simulations of them, and preserved them as our main computer bank. It was a kind of insurance for us, because we would have been stuck if anything happened to you.”

			“Are those simulations perfect?”

			“No, not quite perfect, of course, but the better we do at deleting the surface parts, the easier the tracing becomes, so they are very nearly perfect in terms of function. To put it in greater detail, each simulation is constructed of three kinds of plane coordinate and a holograph. That was not possible, of course, with older computers, but current machines can deal with the complex structure of consciousness because the computers themselves contain functions quite close to the elephant factory. Finally, it is a problem of the fixity of mapping, but I am not going to get into all that. To explain it as simply as I can, the way we trace your mental system is like this. First, we input several electrical-discharge patterns of your consciousness into the computer. Each pattern is subtly different from the others, because the fragments in lines and the lines in bundles are constantly being rearranged, some instances of which are relevant and others irrelevant with regard to measurement, the distinction being judged by the computer. The irrelevant ones are eliminated, and the relevant ones are inscribed as your basic pattern. We repeat this over and over in million-repetition units like building up plastic laminates. And after checking to see that no further irregularities arise, we keep that pattern as your black box.”

			“Meaning you have reproduced my brain?”

			“No, not at all. The brain can by no means be reproduced. All I have done is put your system of consciousness into a stationary, observable form—and have done so within a fixed temporality. We are at a total loss when it comes to the flexibility evidenced by the brain with regard to temporality. But that is not all I accomplished. I succeeded in creating a visualization of your black box.”

			The Doctor looked back and forth between me and the fat girl when he said this.

			“A visualization of the core of your consciousness. No one has ever done that before. Because it was impossible. But I made it possible. How do you think I did that?”

			“I have no idea.”

			“By showing a physical object to one of our experimental subjects, analyzing his brain’s electrical response to the sight, transposing that response into figures and the figures into dots. At first this produced only the most primitive image, but after repeated revisions and improvements in resolution, we were able to produce on the computer screen the exact image of what the subject was seeing. It was not as simple as I am making it sound, and it took considerable time and effort, but we finally reached the point where the computer could go automatically from the brain’s electrical response to the image on the screen. Computers are truly lovely things, you know. As long as we give them consistent instructions, they will always produce consistent work.

			“The next thing for us to do was feed a black box into a computer that already contained its patterns. Then we produced some truly outstanding images of a core consciousness. Of course, the images were very fragmented and chaotic in a way that could not mean anything to anyone, so we had to edit them—yes, like editing a film: cutting and pasting and deleting and combining and rearranging it all into a story with a consistent plot.”

			“A story?”

			“That should not be too surprising,” the Doctor said. “A superior musician can transpose his consciousness into sound, a painter into color and shape, and a novelist into story. The logic is the same. Of course, the process is one of conversion, which means the tracing cannot be truly accurate, but it is a very convenient way to understand the overall shape of a mind. No matter how accurate the individual images might be, looking at a chaotic jumble of them can never enable you to grasp the whole. Nor is there any need for the final edited visualization to be accurate in every respect, since I am not going to use it to do anything. I created the visualization as a product of my own individual taste.”

			“Your taste?”

			“I used to be a kind of assistant film editor way back when—before the war, and I am still very good at it. I know how to impose order on chaos. I merely shut myself up in my laboratory and worked alone without employing any other staff members. I am fairly certain that none of them knew what I was doing. Afterward I surreptitiously removed the visualized data from the laboratory and brought them home as my personal property.”

			“Did you make videos of the minds of all twenty-six of us?”

			“Yes, I made them all. And I gave each of them a title, which became the title of each of the black boxes. Yours was End of the World, as I recall.”

			“That’s right, End of the World. I’ve always wondered why it had that title.”

			“Let me tell you about that later,” the Doctor said. “In any case, no one knew I had succeeded in making videos of twenty-six minds, and I never told anyone. I wanted to carry out my research separately from the System. By then I had brought my System-assigned project to a successful conclusion, and I had finished the experimentation on human subjects I needed. I was fed up, too, with doing research meant to earn a profit for others. I wanted to return to a life of self-directed research, working on a range of projects for my own satisfaction. I am not the type who becomes absorbed in one research topic to the exclusion of all others. I am much more suited to working on a few separate projects at once—physiognomy over here, say, acoustics over there, brain physiology at the same time as the others, and so forth, which is not possible when working for someone else. I told the System I had completed my mission, my research was largely finished, and I was merely performing technical operations, and therefore I wanted to quit. They did not want to let me go, however: I knew too much. They assumed the shuffling plan would come to nothing if I went over to the Semiotecs at that point, and as far as they were concerned, anybody who was not an ally was an enemy. They asked me to wait three months and promised I could do my own research in their laboratory. I would not have to work, and they would pay me a special bonus. In three months’ time, they were going to perfect a rigorously secure system for protecting secrets, and they wanted me to leave after that. This was not a bad arrangement, I felt. Therefore, even though, by nature, I dislike having a lot of restrictions placed on me, I decided to spend three relaxed months there working on my own projects.

			“Relaxation, however, is no good for anyone. It occurred to me I could use my free time to fit one more separate junction into the brains of my subjects—which is to say, you and the others: a third mental circuit, and into that circuit I installed a core consciousness that I had re-edited.”

			“What possible reason could you have had for doing such a thing?”

			“Well, first of all, I wanted to see what effect it would have on my subjects. I wanted to know how a consciousness ordered and edited by another person would function inside them. There had never been such a clear-cut case of that in all human history. My second—and of course ancillary—motive was that if the System was going to use me any way they liked, I wanted to use them any way I liked. I wanted to create at least one function they would not know about.”

			“You mean,” I said, “that was your only reason for installing all these convoluted circuits in our heads like laying down electric train tracks?”

			“I am ashamed, truly ashamed, to have you accuse me of such a thing. But you probably do not realize how irrepressible a scientist’s curiosity can be. Yes, of course I detest the many experiments that doctors cooperating with the Nazis performed on living subjects in the concentration camps, but deep down I also think that if they were going to do such a thing, why could they not have done it a little more skillfully and effectively? All scientists who work on living subjects share the same thought deep down. What I was doing, also, never exposed life to any danger. I merely added a third thing to the two that were already there. I did not stress the brain any more by changing the flow of the circuits a little. It was merely a matter of rearranging alphabet flash cards to make different words.”

			“But the fact is that everybody died but me—all the ones you modified for shuffling. Why did that happen?”

			“I do not know the answer any better than you do,” the Doctor said. “You are correct, however: twenty-five of the twenty-six Calcutecs who were modified for shuffling died. And all in exactly the same manner: they went to sleep in their beds and the next morning they were dead.”

			“Me, too?” I asked. “Could I die tomorrow morning?”

			“It is not that simple,” the Doctor said, squirming in his blanket. “By which I mean that the deaths of the twenty-five were concentrated in a six-month period, from one year and two months to one year and eight months after modification. You are the only exception. Even now, three years and three months later, you continue to perform shuffling without the slightest difficulty. In other words, I have to conclude that you possess some special quality the others lacked.”

			“ ‘Special’ how?”

			“Wait,” he said. “Tell me, after we modified you for shuffling, did you suffer from any strange symptoms such as hearing things or seeing things or blacking out?”

			“No, none of those,” I said, “but I do think I got very sensitive to certain kinds of smells—mostly fruit aromas.”

			“Hmm, that was true for all of you. Certain smells would trip the junction, though I have no idea why. It would merely happen. But you are saying it would not make you hear things or see things or lose consciousness?”

			“No, never.”

			“Hmm.” The Doctor gave this some thought. “Anything else?”

			“Well, a little while ago, I seemed to notice for the first time a certain hidden memory that came back to me. Up to then, I’d recall fragments and not pay much attention, but this recent one was very clear and went on for a long time. I know the cause: the sound of water set it off. But it wasn’t a hallucination. It was very definitely a memory, I’m sure of it.”

			“No, you are mistaken,” the Doctor declared. “To you, it might feel like a memory, but it is an artificial bridge that you yourself created. Quite naturally, there are differences between your own identity and the consciousness that I edited and input into you. You are trying to construct bridges across the gaps between the two in order to justify your own existence.”

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “This has never happened to me before. Why now all of a sudden?”

			“Because I switched the junction and opened the third circuit,” the Doctor said. “But we should discuss this in the proper order. Otherwise, we will have trouble talking about it, and you will have trouble understanding it.”

			I pulled out my whiskey bottle and took another swig. This was probably going to be worse than I had imagined.

			“The System called me in when the first eight men died one after another. They wanted me to determine the cause of death. To tell you the truth, I wanted nothing more to do with the System, but I was the one who had developed the technology, and people were dying, so I could not pretend it had not happened. I went in to see what was what. They told me everything they knew about the eight men’s deaths and explained the results of the postmortems on their brains. As I said before, the eight had all died the same way, but the cause of death was unclear. Neither their bodies nor their brains showed any sign of injury, and all had died peacefully—and apparently painlessly—in their sleep. Their faces showed no hint of suffering.”

			“And you never figured out the cause of death?”

			“No, I never did. I have my theories and guesswork, of course. It was obviously not a coincidence that eight Calcutecs who had been modified for shuffling had died in rapid succession. It was my duty as a scientist to come up with some kind of explanation. My first thought was that if the junction I had input into their brains had come loose or burnt out or stopped working and their mental systems fused together, the combined energy might have been too much for the brain. Or, assuming there was no problem with the junction, there might have been some fundamental problem with the very release of the core consciousness itself, however briefly. Could that have been too much for the human brain?” The Doctor paused to pull his blanket up around his neck. “I cannot prove either of these suppositions, but judging from prior and posterior circumstances, it could have been either one—or both. At least that is what seems most reasonable to me.”

			“The brain autopsies don’t explain anything?”

			“The brain is not a toaster or a washing machine. You cannot see its cords or switches. All it does is change the flow of invisible electrical discharges, which means that after it is dead, we cannot take out the junction and inspect it. We can tell when a living brain has a malfunction, but not a dead one. Of course, we can see injuries or tumors, but there were none. They were absolutely clean.

			“So then we had them send ten surviving subjects to the laboratory for a thorough recheck. We ran EEGs and switched mental systems to make sure the junction was working properly. We interviewed them in detail, questioning them about any physical abnormalities or hallucinatory sounds or sights they might have experienced, but they reported no problems. All of them were healthy and carrying out their shuffling duties without complications. Then we wondered if there had been some congenital defect in the brains of the dead men that had made them unsuitable for shuffling. We had no idea what kind of defect we were looking for, but we figured all we had to do was keep up our research step by step and solve the problem before carrying out a second generation of shuffling modifications.

			“But it turned out we were wrong. Five more subjects died in the next month, three of whom we had just finished checking top to bottom and judged to be free of problems. This was a huge shock to us. Fully half of our twenty-six subjects had died for no apparent reason. This was obviously a more basic problem than whether certain individuals were suitable subjects or not. It meant that the brain was fundamentally incapable of switching between two mental systems, you see. I therefore proposed to the System that we institute an immediate freeze on the project, remove the junctions from the brains of the survivors, and put a stop to all shuffling. Otherwise, I told them, everyone might die. But the System said that was impossible. They rejected my proposal.”

			“Rejected it? Why?”

			“Because the shuffling system was working too well. Reducing it to zero was impractical. It would paralyze the System. Besides, there was no guarantee that everyone would die. If there were any survivors, they said, we should use them as perfect samples for the next stage of research. That was when I stepped down.”

			“And I’m the only survivor.”

			“Exactly so.”

			I rested the back of my head against the rock wall, let my eyes wander up toward the ceiling, and ran my palm over my shaggy cheek. When had I last shaved? I couldn’t remember. My face must look terrible, I thought.

			“So, why haven’t I died?”

			“I have another hypothesis where that is concerned,” the Doctor said. “This will be one hypothesis on top of another, but I suspect I am not that far off the mark. You were already using more than one mental system—unconsciously, of course. Without knowing it yourself, you were making separate use of two different kinds of identities—the watch in your right pants pocket and the watch in your left pants pocket, to go with my earlier metaphor. You had your own junction from the start, and that gave you a kind of psychological immunity. That is the hypothesis I came up with.”

			“For which you have some kind of evidence?”

			“I do. Recently—two or three months ago—I went back and re-viewed the visualized mental system black boxes of all twenty-six of you. That was when I noticed something for the first time. Namely, yours is the most unified, best-plotted one with the fewest disruptions. In a word, it is perfect. As is, it could pass for a novel or a movie. The other twenty-five are not like that. They are all confused and murky and disorganized—beyond editing into a coherent whole. They might as well be dream fragments woven together. They are nothing like yours, like little children’s pictures compared with the work of a professional artist.

			“I gave a lot of thought as to why this should be the case, and I could come to only one conclusion: you put yours together yourself. That is why there is such an extremely clear structure in the compilation of your images. Metaphorically speaking, again, you went down into the elephant factory at the bottom of your consciousness and were making elephants with your own hands—without being aware of it yourself, of course.”

			“Incredible,” I said. “How can such a thing even happen?”

			“There are many different causes,” the Doctor said. “Childhood experiences, home environment, excessive objectification of the ego, guilt feelings…and in your case, especially, you have an extreme tendency to protect your own shell, am I right?”

			“Maybe so,” I said. “What, then, if that’s true?”

			“Nothing then. If nothing happens, you will have a long life,” the Doctor said. “Realistically speaking, though, it is not likely that nothing will happen. Like it or not, you are the key to this ridiculous information war we are in. Before long, the System is going to launch a second project with you as a model. You will be analyzed and poked and prodded to the nth degree. Not even I know exactly what they will do to you, but it is bound to be unpleasant. I know very little about the ways of the world, but I know that much. I was hoping I could save you.”

			“Oh, great,” I said. “Aren’t you going to have anything to do with this new project?”

			“As I have told you many times, I am not suited to selling bits and pieces of my research to others. And I do not wish to be involved in a job that might end up killing people. I have already had to do a lot of soul searching. I became fed up with all that, which is why I built my laboratory down here underground and have stayed away from people. It is bad enough the System wants me, but the Semiotecs come and want to use me, too. I hate those big organizations. All they ever think about is what is good for them.”

			“Then why did you perform that weird operation on me? And why did you lie when you sent for me and had me do those calculations?”

			“I wanted to test my hypothesis before the System or the Semiotecs could grab you and do all their poking and prodding. If I could prove it, you could escape having them mess around with you. In among the data I gave you to calculate was hidden the call sign for switching to your third mental system. Which is to say, after you had switched to your second mental system, you switched one more point and carried out your calculations in your third mental system.”

			“By which you mean the system you visualized and edited?”

			“Exactly,” the Doctor said with a nod.

			“But how does that prove your hypothesis?”

			“It’s a question of differences,” the Doctor said. “You had a firm grasp on your core consciousness in your unconscious mind, so there was absolutely no problem when you were using your second mental system. The third circuit, however, is the one I edited, so naturally differences arose between the two. Those differences should have caused some kind of reaction in you, and what I wanted to do was to measure your reactions to those differences. As a result of those measurements, I should have been able to estimate a little more concretely the strength and nature and origin of the things you have sealed in your subconscious.”

			“You should have been able to?”

			“Yes, I should have been able to do it. But now all my efforts have gone to waste. The Semiotecs teamed up with the Murks, smashed my laboratory to bits and made off with all my materials. I went back and checked once after they had cleared out. Everything important was gone. They made it impossible for me to measure those differences. They had even taken the visualized black boxes.”

			“What does that have to do with the world ending?” I asked.

			“Strictly speaking, it is not this world of ours that is going to end. The world will end in a person’s heart and mind.”

			“I don’t get it,” I said.

			“Finally, it is the core of your consciousness. What it depicts is a walled town called End of the World. Why you have such a thing concealed in your subconscious, I have no idea. But in any case, it is there. The world is ending in your mind. To put it conversely, your mind is living in the End of the World. Almost everything that should exist in this present world of ours is missing from that world—no time or space, no life or death, no sense of values or self in the proper sense. Beasts control people’s selves there.”

			“Beasts?”

			“Unicorns,” the Doctor said. “There are unicorns in the town.”

			“Is there some connection between those unicorns and the skull you gave me?”

			“That was a replica I made. Good job, don’t you think? I based it on a visual image of yours. It was hard work! Not that it has any special meaning. I am interested in phrenology, so I made it on a kind of whim. It is my gift to you.”

			“Wait a minute,” I said. “I more or less get it about a world like that in my subconscious. And you edited it for clarity and input it into my head as a third circuit. Next you sent my consciousness into that circuit by sending in a call sign and had me do shuffling. Right so far?”

			“Yes, that is correct.”

			“And when the shuffling ended, that third circuit closed automatically and my consciousness went back into my original circuit number one.”

			“No, there you are wrong,” the Doctor said, and scratched the back of his head. “I wish it were that simple. The third circuit has no automatic shutoff function.”

			“You mean my third circuit is stuck open?”

			“That is more or less correct.”

			“But here I am, thinking and acting in conformance with my first circuit.”

			“That is because your second circuit has a plug in it. Here is a diagram of the setup,” the Doctor said. He pulled a memo pad and ballpoint pen from his pocket, drew a diagram, and handed the page to me.





			“This is your normal state. Junction A is connected to Input 1, and Junction B is connected to Input 2. But now you are like this,” he said, drawing another diagram on another sheet of paper.





			“Do you see? With Junction B still connected to Circuit 3, Junction A has been automatically switched to Circuit 1, which is why you can think and act on Circuit 1. But this is strictly temporary. We have to hurry and switch Junction B to Circuit 2. That is because Circuit 3 does not, strictly speaking, belong to you. If we just leave it as is, the energy produced by the differences will burn through Junction B, leaving it permanently linked to Circuit 3. That is because the discharge from that will attract Junction A over to Point 2 and consequently burn through that junction as well. I was supposed to measure the differential energy before that happened and put everything back where it belonged.”

			“You were supposed to?” I asked.

			“It is out of my hands now. As I said before, those idiots destroyed my laboratory and took all the most important materials. I really am sorry, but there is nothing I can do for you.”

			“You mean I’m going to stay stuck in Circuit 3 forever? I can never get back?”

			“That is what it means, yes. You are going to live in the End of the World. I feel terrible about it.”

			“You feel terrible about it? A lot of good that does me. Maybe all you have to do is apologize, but what happens to me? You’re the one who made this mess. I’m serious, this is the worst thing I’ve ever heard of.”

			“Yes, but I never dreamed the Semiotecs would team up with the Murks. They knew I was into something and broke in hoping to get the secret key to shuffling. And now the System probably knows about that, too. The two of us are like a double-edged sword for them. Do you see what I mean? They probably think we have something going that is separate from them, and they know the Semiotecs are after us. The Semiotecs deliberately played it so the System would find out. That way, the System would want to rub us out to protect the secret. However you look at it, we betrayed the System, so they are going to try to kill us even if it means knocking out the shuffling system. You and I are the keys to the first phase of the shuffling plan, so the System would have a tough time if the Semiotecs put their hands on both of us. Meanwhile, that is just what the Semiotecs are hoping for. If the System were to rub us out, that would be the end of the shuffling plan, but if we were to run to the Semiotecs to escape the System, it would be perfect for them. Either way, they have nothing to lose.”

			“Oh, great,” I said. So it was the Semiotecs who had smashed up my apartment and slashed my belly. They acted out that farce just to get the System worried about me. Which meant I had fallen straight into their trap.

			“So then, I’ve had it. Both the Semiotecs and the System are after me, and if I sit still, I’ll cease to exist.”

			“No, you will not cease to exist. You will simply enter another world.”

			“It’s the same thing,” I said. “Look, I know perfectly well that people need a magnifying glass to spot my existence. I’ve always been like that. It takes me forever to find my own face in my class graduation photo. I don’t have any family, so no one would be put out if I were to disappear right now. I don’t have any friends, so I could cease to exist without making anyone sad. I know all that. But still, strange as it may seem, I’m satisfied with this world as it is. I don’t know why. Maybe myself and I have been enjoying life split in two, trading gags like a comedy team. Who knows? But finally I’m just more comfortable here in this world. I hate a lot of the people who live here, and they seem to hate me back, but a few of them I do like—and the ones I like, I like a lot, whether or not they like me. That’s the kind of life I’ve been living. I don’t want to go anywhere else. I don’t want immortality. I’m sure it will be painful to grow old, but I won’t be the only one. Everybody else will grow old, too. I don’t need any unicorns or fences.”

			“Not fences, a wall,” the Doctor corrected me.

			“Fences, walls, what’s the difference? I don’t need them,” I said. “Mind if I get a little angry now? I don’t do it very often, but I’m getting more and more worked up.”

			“Well, I guess it is unavoidable under the circumstances,” the Doctor said, scratching his earlobe.

			“This is one hundred percent your responsibility, not mine. You started it, you developed it, you wrapped me up in it. You installed that damned third circuit in my brain without asking me. You faked that shuffling order form to make me betray the System. You got the Semiotecs chasing after me and dragged me down here in this crazy underground. And now you’re trying to bring my whole world to an end. I’ve never heard of anything so outrageous—have you? Get me back the way I was.”

			The Doctor groaned.

			“He’s right, Grandpa,” the fat girl chimed in. “You sometimes get so carried away with your own work, you don’t realize the harm you’re doing to other people. Remember that experiment you did on foot fins? You’ve got to help him.”

			“My intentions were good, but things kept growing worse and worse,” the old man said with apparent regret. “Now it is out of my hands. I cannot do anything—and neither can you, young man. The wheels are spinning faster and faster, and no one can stop them.”

			“That’s great,” I said.

			“But what you have lost in this world, you can bring back in the other one—what you have lost and what you are losing.”

			“What I’ve lost?”

			“Yes,” the Doctor said. “Everything you have lost: it is all there.”





26


			End of the World


			Power Plant


			The librarian gave me a look of dread when I told her after our dreamreading that I was planning to go to the power plant.

			“The power plant is in the Forest, you know,” she said while extinguishing red-burning coals in the bucket of sand.

			“Barely inside the entrance,” I said. “Even Gatekeeper said he has no problem with me going there.”

			“Nobody knows what Gatekeeper is thinking. He may say it’s just inside the entrance, but the Forest is a dangerous place.”

			“Still, I’m going to go. I really want to find a musical instrument.”

			When she had taken all the coals out, she opened the drawer in the bottom of the stove and dumped the accumulated white ashes into a bucket. Then she shook her head.

			“I’ll go with you,” she said.

			“Why? I know you don’t want to go near the Forest. And I don’t want to get you mixed up in this.”

			“I can’t let you go alone. You still don’t know how terrifying the Forest can be.”



* * *



			—

			We walked east along the river beneath cloudy skies. It was a warm morning that hinted at the approach of spring. There was no wind, and the sound of the river had lost its chill clarity for something more subdued. I took off my gloves and scarf after we had been walking ten or fifteen minutes.

			“It’s like spring,” I said.

			“True,” she answered, “but this kind of warmth won’t last more than a day. It’s always like that. Winter will be back right away.”

			We crossed the bridge to the south side of the river, and once we had passed the scattering of houses along the bank, there was nothing to see on the right but open farmland. The cobblestone road gave way to a narrow mud track. Frozen snow remained like long white scratches between the ridges of the fields. Willows lined the riverbank to our left, their soft branches drooping down to the surface of the water. Tiny birds perched on the trembling branches, shaking them in vain attempts to catch their balance, until they gave up and flew off to other trees. The light of the sun was pale and gentle. I raised my face now and then to enjoy its quiet warmth. She kept her right hand in her own coat pocket and her left hand in my coat pocket. I held a small valise in my left hand and squeezed her hand in my right coat pocket. The valise held our lunch and gifts for the power plant Caretaker.

			Holding her warm hand, I thought to myself how many things would be easier once spring came. If my heart and my shadow’s body could make it through the winter, I could probably retrieve my heart in a truer form. As my shadow had said, I had to conquer winter.

			We strolled upstream, observing the scenery around us. Neither of us said very much, not because we had nothing to talk about but because there was no need to talk. Instead, we took in each and every feature of our surroundings—the lingering snow that traced white dips in the earth, the birds holding bright-red berries in their beaks, the stiff, fleshy winter vegetables in the fields, the clear little eddies formed here and there in the river, the snow-covered ridge above. All the things we saw appeared to be deeply inhaling the sudden brief burst of warmth and letting it permeate themselves. The clouds covering the sky lacked their usual oppressiveness and felt as though they were enfolding our little world in a mysteriously intimate embrace.

			Another sight we encountered was that of beasts wandering over the dry grass in search of food, enveloped in their whitened pale-gold coats. Their hair was much longer and thicker than it had been in autumn, but we could see clearly how emaciated they had become in the meantime. Their bones poked up beneath the skin of their shoulders like the springs of an old sofa. The flesh around their mouths drooped and sagged. Their eyes had almost no life to them, and their leg joints were swollen into spheres. The only thing unchanged about them was the white horn thrusting out from each forehead, as straight and proud as ever.

			In groups of three or four, the beasts strayed along the ridges of the fields from one small growth clump to another, but there was little sign of berries or soft green leaves suitable for eating. A few berries remained on the branches of high trees far above where they could reach. The beasts searched vainly for fallen fruit and cast sad glances at birds pecking at the berries that hung above them.

			“Why do you think the beasts don’t touch the crops in the field?” I asked.

			“It’s a rule,” she said. “I don’t know why. They will never touch things that people eat. They will if we feed them something, of course, but only then.”

			Several beasts knelt on the riverbank, their forelegs folded underneath them, drinking from the still water. None of them raised their heads even though we passed close behind them. Their white horns reflected clearly on the water’s surface, looking like white bones that had sunk to the bottom.



* * *



			—

			As Gatekeeper had told me, after we had been walking some thirty minutes along the river and passed East Bridge, a small pathway opened to the right—small and narrow enough so that we might have missed it if we had just been out for a walk. There was no more farmland in that area, just luxuriant tall grass growing on either side of the path and stretching out like a border between the farmland and the Eastern Forest.

			As we followed the path through the grass, it gradually began to climb, and the grass became sparse and patchy. The slope came to a sharp rise that ended in a rocky hill—not so steep and smooth a hill that we had to scramble up on all fours, but there were fairly well-defined steps carved into the sandstone, the rounded edges of which had been worn down by feet. Ten minutes of climbing brought us to the top of the hill, which must have been slightly lower overall than West Hill where I lived.

			The other—south—side of the hill was a far gentler descent than the north side we had just climbed. The plain of dry grass continued for a way, and beyond that stretched the Eastern Forest like a deep, black sea.

			We sat on the hilltop, catching our breath and taking in the surrounding scenery. From the east, the view of the town gave a very different impression than what I was used to. The river flowed from east to west in a startlingly straight line without any sandbars, looking more like a manmade canal. Beyond the river stretched Northern Swamp, to the right of which, like a separate outpost north of the river, a section of the Eastern Forest invaded the area. To the left on this side of the river we could see the farmland we had come through. No houses were visible anywhere, and East Bridge looked forlorn and deserted. With determined staring, I could just barely make out the workers’ district and the clock tower, but they seemed like insubstantial phantasms sent from far away.



* * *



			—

			When we were rested, we headed down the slope toward the Forest. At the Forest entrance was a pond so clear and shallow we could see the bottom, in the middle of which stood the bone-white stump of a giant tree. Two white birds that were perched on it kept their eyes fixed on us. Our shoes left no tracks on the hard snow. The long winter had transformed the scene within the Forest. We heard no bird cries and saw no insects. Only the gigantic trees sucked the life force from the unfrozen depths of the earth, reaching upward toward the darkly clouded sky.

			As we walked along the Forest path, we became gradually aware of a strange sound, rather like the whoosh of the wind dancing through the Forest, but nothing around us gave evidence that the wind was blowing, and the sound was too monotonous, the pitch too unchanging to be that of the wind. The farther we walked, the louder and clearer the sound grew, but neither of us could tell what it meant. She had never been near the power plant, either.

			Massive oak trees stood in our way, and beyond them was a wide-open clearing, at the back of which stood a building that must have been the power plant, though it had no special features that indicated it served such a function. It looked like nothing so much as a huge warehouse. It had no unusual machinery showing nor high-voltage lines running out of it. The strange windlike sound we had been hearing must have been coming from this brick structure. Sturdy iron double doors covered the entrance, and a number of small windows were visible high up on the front wall. The path had ended where it came to the open clearing.

			“I guess this must be the power plant,” I said.

			The front doors seemed to be locked, though. We could not budge them with our combined strength.

			We decided to do a circuit of the building. It turned out to be somewhat deeper than it was wide. The side had the same row of high, small windows as the front, and it was from them that the strange windlike sound was emanating. There were no doors in the blank brick wall that towered over us. At first glance, this wall looked much like the one that surrounded the town, but on closer inspection we could see that this one’s bricks were much more crudely made than the town wall’s. They were rough to the touch, and some were actually missing.

			Adjoined to the building’s back wall was a cozy little house of the same brick construction. It was about the same size as Gatekeeper’s house and had an ordinary door and window. A cloth grain sack hung in the window to serve as a curtain, and a soot-smeared chimney poked up from the roof. Here, at least, there was some sense of human life being carried on. Three times I gave the wooden door three knocks, but no one answered. This door was locked, too.

			“The power plant’s entrance is over there,” she said, taking my hand and pointing. She was right: there was a small doorway in a corner of the back wall, its iron door opened outward.

			The wind sound increased in volume as we approached the door to peek inside. It was much darker in there than I had imagined, and until my eyes became used to the dark, I could not make out what was inside, even shading my eyes with both hands and staring hard. There were no electric lights in there, which seemed odd for a power plant, the only light inside remaining up near the ceiling, whatever feeble daylight managed to enter through the high windows. The dancing wind noise had the complete run of the interior.

			No one would be likely to overhear me if I called out, so I just stepped through the door, removed my black glasses, and waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. She stood close behind me, obviously wishing she could be somewhere else, afraid of the wind sound and the darkness.

			Accustomed as they were to functioning in the dark, it didn’t take long for my eyes to make out the figure of a man standing in the middle of the floor. Small and slim, he stood facing a metal column or shaft some three or four meters thick that thrust straight up from floor to ceiling. It seemed to absorb his full attention. Aside from the shaft there was nothing else in the room that might be some kind of machinery or fixture. The empty space could well have been an indoor horseback-riding enclosure or, with its brick walls and floor, a gigantic kiln.

			I left her in the doorway and headed into the building. The man seemed to sense my presence when I was about halfway to the shaft. He turned just his face in my direction and watched me approach. He was young, most likely a few years younger than me. Everything about his appearance contrasted with that of Gatekeeper: slender arms, legs, and neck, pale complexion, smooth skin, hardly any sign of a beard, broad forehead and high hairline, neat and well-matched clothing.

			“Hello,” I said.

			Lips tight, he stared at me a moment and gave me a quick nod.

			“Sorry to bother you,” I said, shouting to be heard above the wind noise.

			He shook his head as if to say I was no bother. Then he turned toward me and pointed at a glass window about the size of a postcard in the side of the shaft. He seemed to want me to look inside. I noticed that the window was part of a door in the shaft that was firmly bolted in place. On the other side of the glass, a gigantic fanlike machine mounted parallel to the ground was spinning with furious intensity as though its shaft were being driven by a many-thousand-horsepower engine. I imagined they must be turning the fan with some kind of wind pressure and using the power to generate electricity.

			“It’s wind, isn’t it?” I said.

			He nodded in affirmation. Then he took my arm and led me toward the entrance. He was about half a head shorter than I was. We walked shoulder to shoulder like old friends. She was standing in the doorway. The young man gave her the same kind of quick nod he had given me.

			“Hello,” she said.

			“Hello,” he replied.

			He led us to a place where there was less wind noise. Behind the small house was a plowed field where a section of the Forest had been cleared away. We sat on a row of stumps.

			“I’m sorry, I can’t speak very loudly,” the young Caretaker said. “You are townspeople, I presume?”

			“Yes, that’s right,” I replied.

			“As you just observed,” he said, “this town’s electricity is generated by wind power. We use the wind that blows up through a big hole in the earth.”

			He fell silent for a few moments and stared at the ground beneath our feet.

			“The wind blows once every three days. There are many underground caverns around here. Wind and water come and go through them. It’s my job to maintain the equipment. When there’s no wind, I tighten the fan bolts and grease the axle. I make sure the switches don’t freeze. The electricity we generate here is sent to the town through underground cables.”

			Caretaker fell silent again and looked at the borders of the field. The Forest surrounded it like a high wall. The field’s black soil was neatly tilled, but there was no sign of crops yet.

			“When I have time, I clear the forest bit by bit to enlarge the field. I work alone, so I can’t do anything large-scale. I avoid the bigger trees and choose the more manageable-looking areas. But it’s very satisfying to do things with your own hands. In the spring I plant vegetables, too. Did you come here to see how the power plant works?”

			“Something like that,” I said.

			“Nobody ever comes here from the town,” said Caretaker. “They don’t want to enter the Forest. Of course, the delivery man is different. He comes once a week to bring food and daily necessities.”

			“You mean you have been living here all alone?” I asked.

			“Yes, that’s right. For a very long time. It’s gotten so I can tell the condition of the delicate machines just listening to the sounds they make. I’m more or less conversing with them every day. You can tell that much if you do it long enough. When the machinery is in good condition, it gives me peace of mind. The sounds of the Forest are another thing I can understand. It’s as if they’re alive.”

			“Isn’t it hard living alone in the Forest?”

			“I can’t tell about that—‘hard’ or ‘not hard,’ ” he said. “The Forest is here and I live in it, that’s all. Somebody has to stay here and keep an eye on the machinery. Besides, where I live is just inside the Forest entrance. I don’t know much about the interior.”

			“Are there others who live permanently in the Forest like you?” she asked.

			Caretaker gave this some thought before nodding a few times.

			“I know of a few. They live further inside, but there are a number of them. They dig coal and clear the Forest for farmland. I’ve met very few of them and actually spoken with only a handful. They don’t accept me. They really live in the Forest, while I’m just out here. I think there must be lots of them deep inside, but I don’t know any more than that. I don’t go inside, and they hardly ever come out to the entrance.”

			“Have you ever seen a woman?” she asked. “In her early thirties.”

			Caretaker shook his head. “No, never,” he said. “The ones I’ve met have all been men.”

			I looked at her, but she said nothing more.





27


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Encyclopedia Pick, Immortality, Paper Clips


			“Well, that’s just terrific,” I said. “So there’s nothing we can do? How far have things gone according to your calculations?”

			“You mean things in your head?” the Doctor asked.

			“Of course the things in my head.” What other “things” could I have been talking about? “How far has the destruction progressed?”

			“I would estimate that your Junction B should have fused about six hours ago. Of course when I say ‘fused,’ I do not mean that part of your brain actually melted and fused with another part. I simply chose a convenient way to express it. In other words—”

			“So my Circuit 3 is frozen in place and my Circuit 2 is dead, is that it?”

			“Yes, that is what it means. Which is why, as I said before, compensatory bridging has already started inside you. That is, memories have begun to be created. If I may resort to a metaphor, the conduit connecting your subconscious and your surface consciousness is being adjusted in accordance with changes in the modality of your subconscious elephant factory.”

			“Which is to say,” I asked, “that my Junction A is not functioning properly? Wouldn’t that mean that information is leaking from my subconscious circuit?”

			“Not strictly speaking, no,” the Doctor said. “The conduit between the two was there to begin with. However much we may differentiate between one mental circuit and another, there is no question of cutting that conduit. That is because your surface consciousness—your Circuit 1—takes shape by absorbing nutrients from your subconscious—your Circuit 2. The conduit is both tree root and ground wire. Without it, the human brain cannot function. That is why, when we operated on you, we left the conduit in place to the minimum degree necessary to prevent leaking or backflow, which would not have been necessary under normal circumstances. Unfortunately, however, the energy discharged by the fusing of Junction B administered an abnormal shock to the conduit, which so surprised your brain that it initiated compensatory adjustment procedures.”

			“So, what you’re telling me is that this production of new memories is going to keep going full steam from now on?”

			“That is correct, yes. Simply stated, it is like déjà vu—or not very different in principle. And it will keep going for a while. Eventually, it will lead to a new edition of the world based on those new memories.”

			“New edition of the world?”

			“Correct. You are now preparing to move into another world. Which is why the world you see now is changing bit by bit to go with the new one. It is a matter of perception. The world changes, depending entirely on your perception. The world certainly does exist here and now like this, but viewed as an observable phenomenon, the world is only one of countless possibilities. In microscopic terms, the world can change totally depending on whether you put your right foot forward or your left foot forward. So, it is no wonder the world can change when your memories change.”

			“Sounds like sophistry to me,” I said. “It’s too abstract. You’re ignoring the time element. The things you’re talking about are really a problem only in the case of the time paradox.”

			“In a sense, this truly is a time paradox,” the Doctor said. “By making memories, you are making your own individual parallel world.”

			“So then, this world I’m experiencing is diverging bit by bit from the world I’ve always known?”

			“I do not know precisely, and no one can prove it. I am saying only that it is not out of the realm of possibility. Of course, I am not talking about the kind of extreme parallel worlds you see in science-fiction novels. It is entirely a matter of perception—the image of the world as captured by perception. I think it surely must be changing in many aspects.”

			“And after it changes, Junction A switches, a totally different world appears, and I end up living in that world, right? I can’t avoid the switch: I just sit and wait for it to happen?”

			“That is correct.”

			“How long will that new world continue to exist?”

			“It will go on forever,” the Doctor said.

			“I don’t get it,” I said. “Why should it go on forever? The physical body must have its limits. When the flesh dies, the brain dies. When the brain dies, consciousness ends. It’s that simple, isn’t it?”

			“No, there you are wrong. Thought has no time. That is the difference between thought and dream. You can see an entire thought in a split second, and you can experience eternity. You can also go on spinning round and round a closed circuit once you establish it. That is what we mean by ‘thought.’ It can never be interrupted the way a dream can. It is like an encyclopedia pick.”

			“Encyclopedia pick?”

			“Yes, an encyclopedia pick is a theoretical game that a certain scientist thought up—a theory that one can carve an entire encyclopedia onto a single toothpick. Do you know how that would be done?”

			“I have no idea.”

			“It is very simple. You take the text of an encyclopedia and transform all of that data into numbers. You turn each individual letter into a two-digit figure, so A is zero one, B is zero two, and so forth. Zero zero is a blank space, and you turn all the punctuation marks into figures, too. Then you put a decimal point in front of the whole row of figures, which transforms it into a huge, long decimal fraction, like zero point one seven three two zero zero zero six three one and so on. Then you carve each digit at the precise point along the toothpick that corresponds to its place in the decimal fraction. In other words, the part that corresponds to zero point five zero zero zero zero and so on is in the exact center of the toothpick, and zero point three three three three and so on would be a point one third from the front. Do you see what I mean?”

			“Yes, I see.”

			“That way, all data, no matter how long, is carved into one point on the toothpick. Of course, this is a strictly theoretical matter: it is impossible in actual fact. Current technology is incapable of carving such a fine point. It can, however, help one understand the nature of thought. Time is the length of the toothpick. The amount of data squeezed into it has nothing to do with the length of the toothpick. It can be as long as it needs to be. It can approach eternity. If you put it into looping figures, that does it: it goes on forever. It does not end. Do you see what I mean? The problem is in the software. It has nothing to do with the hardware. The hardware can be a toothpick, a piece of lumber two hundred meters long, or the equator: that is irrelevant. Even if you physically die and your consciousness fades away, your thought captures the moment just before that and goes on subdividing that point for eternity. Remember the old paradox about the flying arrow. It can never hit the target. The death of the body is the flying arrow, the target is your brain, and no one can stop it from hitting. A person has to die sometime and his body has to perish. Time pushes the arrow ahead, but, as I said before, thought goes on subdividing time into ever smaller fractions, and so the paradox happens in reality. The arrow never hits.”

			“In other words,” I said, “immortality.”

			“Exactly. A human being inside his thought will never die. It may not exactly be immortality, but infinitely closer and closer to immortality: eternal life.”

			“So that was the true purpose of your research?”

			“No, not at all,” the Doctor said. “It did not occur to me at first. I was working from sheer curiosity, but then, in the course of my research, I ran into this. That was when I discovered that human beings do not attain immortality by expanding time but by subdividing it.”

			“And so you dragged me into that immortal world?”

			“No, it was a total accident. I never intended to do that. But now I have no choice. There is only one way for you to avoid the immortal world.”

			“And what way is that?”

			“To die right now,” the Doctor said with detachment. “Just die before Junction A is wired in. That way nothing will be left.”

			A deep silence fell over our cavern. The Doctor cleared his throat. The fat girl released a sigh. I took a swig of my whiskey. No one said a word.

			I asked the Doctor, “What kind of a world is it…this immortal world of which you speak?”

			“As I told you before,” the Doctor said, “it is a peaceful world. It is your world—you made it yourself, and you can become yourself there. Everything is there, and, at the same time, nothing is there. Can you imagine a world like that?”

			“No, I can’t.”

			“But your own subconscious made it. It’s not something that just anybody could have made. Some people have to wander forever through a crazy, contradictory world of chaos, but you are not like them. You are well suited to being immortal.”

			“When is the switch going to happen from one world to the other?” the fat girl asked.

			The Doctor looked at his watch. I looked at my watch. It was 6:25. The sun was up, and the morning papers had been delivered.

			“My best estimate is twenty-nine hours and thirty-five minutes from now,” the Doctor said. “Plus or minus forty-five minutes, though it is highly accurate. I set it at noon to keep it simple—tomorrow noon.”

			I shook my head. To keep it simple? I took another swig of whiskey, but the alcohol didn’t seem to be having any effect on me. I couldn’t even taste it. I felt something odd, as though my stomach had petrified.

			The girl placed her hand on my knee and asked, “What are you going to do now?”

			“I have no idea,” I said. “The one thing I want to do is get up to the surface. I refuse to stay down here waiting for something to happen. I’m going out where the sun shines. Then I’ll think of what comes next.”

			“Was my explanation enough for you?” the Doctor asked.

			“Yes, plenty,” I said. “Thanks.”

			“I suppose you’re angry?”

			“A little,” I said. “But it won’t do any good to blow up. And besides, this is all so crazy, I haven’t absorbed the reality of it yet. Maybe later I’ll get really mad. Of course, by then, I’ll probably be dead in this world.”

			“I was not planning to give you such a detailed explanation,” the Doctor said. “If you had not known anything, it would have just ended, and that would have been that. It might have been psychologically easier on you, too. Finally, though, you are not going to die. Your consciousness will be permanently gone, that is all.”

			“Same thing,” I said. “But anyhow, I wanted to know the truth. I mean, it’s my life, after all. I wouldn’t want to have the switch thrown without knowing what was happening to me. I’ll take care of my own affairs. Please tell me where the exit is.”

			“The exit?”

			“The way out of here, up to the surface.”

			“It takes a long time to get there, and you have to go by the Murks’ lair. Are you all right with that?”

			“No problem,” I said. “I don’t have to be afraid of much of anything now.”

			“Fine,” the Doctor said. “You go down this rocky hill to water level. The waters are quiet now, so it will be easy for you to swim. You head south-southwest. I shall light the way for you. You swim straight ahead, and when you come to the far shore, there will be a small opening just above the water level. That will take you to the sewer, and the sewer leads directly into a subway track.”

			“A subway track?”

			“Yes indeed, exactly halfway between Gaienmae and Aoyama-itchome Stations on the Ginza Line.”

			“Why does it lead into the subway of all things?”

			“Because the Murks control the subways. Not so much during the day, but at nighttime they take over down there. The new subway construction dramatically increased their territory. I mean, the whole place was built expressly for them. Every once in a while, they will grab a maintenance worker and eat him.”

			“How come we never hear about it?”

			“Because it would cause an uproar. Who would ever work for the subway if people found out about that? Who would ever ride the subway? The authorities know, of course, and they take defensive measures—strengthening walls, plugging holes, installing brighter lights—but it takes more than that to hold back the Murks. In one night, they can smash a wall down or chew through a cable.”

			“If I’m going to come out between Gaienmae and Aoyama-itchome, where are we now?”

			“Hmm, perhaps on the Omotesando side of the Meiji Shrine? I am not entirely sure myself. But it is one road all the way—full of twists and turns, and it is narrow and time-consuming, but you cannot get lost. From here you head toward Sendagaya. Keep in mind that the Murks’ lair is just before you reach the National Stadium. The road turns right there. You take that right, head toward the Jingu Baseball Stadium, pass the Meiji Memorial Picture Gallery with its two bronze unicorns, and come out to the Ginza subway line under Aoyama Boulevard. It should take you about two hours to reach the exit. Do you understand the overall picture?”

			“Just fine.”

			“Make sure you move quickly when you are passing the Murks’ lair. You want to spend as little time around there as possible. And watch out in the subway for the high-voltage lines and the trains running constantly. It is rush hour now. It would be ridiculous to make it out of here only to be run over by a subway train.”

			“I’ll be careful,” I said. “But what are you going to do from now on?”

			“I have my sprain to think about, and even if I left here now, I would just have the System or the Semiotecs chasing after me. I would rather stay down here out of sight. Fortunately, you have brought me food, and I am not a big eater, so I am probably good for three or four days at least,” the Doctor said. “Feel free to go out first. You need not worry about me.”

			“What are you going to do about a Murk repeller? I’ll need two to get to the exit, which won’t leave you with any.”

			“Take my granddaughter with you,” the Doctor said. “She can come back for me after she sees you out.”

			“That’s perfect,” she said.

			“But what if something happens to her—say, they catch her or something?”

			“They won’t catch me,” she said.

			“No fear,” the Doctor said. “She is very mature for her age. I trust her. And besides, I would not be completely empty-handed in an emergency. I can improvise a Murk repeller. All I need is a battery and water and a thin piece of metal. It is simple and works on the same principle. It would not be as strong as the device, but I know my way around down here—enough to shake them off. You saw how I scattered those metal pieces on the way here? The Murks hate those. True, the effect only lasts fifteen or twenty minutes.”

			“Do you mean those paper clips?” I asked.

			“Yes, that is it. Paper clips are the best thing to use. They are cheap and compact and they take on a magnetic charge right away. You can make a necklace out of them and hang them around your neck. No doubt about it, paper clips are the best.”

			I took a fistful of paper clips from my windbreaker pocket and handed them to the Doctor. “Will this be enough?”

			“Well, look at this!” he exclaimed. “This is all I need! I was worried I had thrown down too many and run out on the way here. What a clever fellow! I really owe you for this, young man. There are not many as smart as you.”

			“We have to get going, Grandpa,” she said. “We don’t have much time.”

			“Watch out for yourself,” the Doctor said. “Those Murks are sly creatures.”

			“Don’t worry,” she said, kissing her grandfather on the forehead. “I’ll be back.”

			“And to you,” the Doctor said to me, “I have only apologies for what I did to you. I am truly sorry. I would take your place if I could. I have had a long, happy life and could die without regrets. The end is perhaps coming a little too early for you—and so suddenly. I am sure you have not had time to prepare yourself. You must still have a lot of unfinished business in this world.”

			I nodded in silence.

			“But do not be excessively frightened,” the Doctor continued. “Do you hear what I am telling you? You do not have to be afraid. This is not death, it is eternal life. And you can become yourself there. Compared with that, this world of ours is nothing more than a make-believe fantasy. Please do not forget that.”

			“All right, then, let’s go,” the girl said, taking my arm.





28


			End of the World


			Musical Instruments


			The young power plant Caretaker showed the two of us into his small house. He checked the flame on his stove and carried a boiling kettle into the kitchen, where he made tea for us. We were grateful for the warm liquid after the Forest chill. The wind sound continued as we drank.

			“I pick the tea leaves in the Forest,” said Caretaker. “I dry it in the shade all summer. That gives me enough for the entire winter. It’s nutritious and keeps me warm.”

			“It’s quite delicious,” she said.

			It was fragrant and mildly sweet.

			“What plant do you get the leaves from?”

			“Hmm, I don’t know the name,” Caretaker said. “It’s a grass that grows in the Forest. It smelled good, so I tried making tea from it. It’s a low, green plant that blooms in July. That’s when I pick the short leaves and dry them. The beasts like to eat the flowers.”

			“The beasts come here?” I asked.

			“Yes, until early autumn. They stop coming to the Forest as soon as winter begins. They show up in little groups to keep me company when the weather’s warm. They know I’ll share my rations with them, but even so, they won’t approach the Forest in winter. Which is why I’m lonely all winter long.”

			“Please feel free to share our lunch,” she said. “We brought sandwiches and fruit—probably more than the two of us can eat. Do help yourself.”

			“Thanks very much,” Caretaker said. “I can’t remember how long it’s been since I last ate someone else’s cooking. I have a stew I made from Forest mushrooms. Please have some.”

			“Thanks, I will,” I said.

			The three of us ate the sandwiches she had made and Caretaker’s mushroom stew. Afterwards we munched on fruit and sipped tea. We didn’t say much while we ate. The wind noise penetrated the room, filling the silence like clear water. The clinking of our plates and cutlery took on a tone of unreality mixed with the wind noise.

			“Do you never leave the Forest?” I asked Caretaker.

			“Never,” he said with a gentle shake of the head. “That is how it has been decided. I am to stay here all the time and maintain the power plant. Someone might come and take over my job at some point, but I have no idea when that would be. If that happens, I’ll be able to leave the Forest and go back to the town. But until then, I can’t take a step outside the Forest. I just wait here for the wind to come every three days.”

			I nodded and drank down the last of my tea. Not much time had passed since the wind noise started. It would probably continue for another two or two and a half hours. The more I listened to it, the more I felt myself being physically drawn toward it, little by little. I imagined what a lonely existence it must be, listening to this sound alone in the empty power plant.

			“The two of you didn’t come here just to see how the power plant works, did you?” the young man asked me. “As I said before, no one ever comes from the town.”

			“We’re looking for musical instruments,” I said. “We were told you would know where they are.”

			He nodded a few times, staring at the knives and forks piled on a plate. “It’s true,” he said, “there are several instruments here. They’re very old—I don’t know whether they still work, but you’re welcome to take any that do. I don’t know how to play them, after all. I just line them up and look at them. Would you like to see them?”

			“If you don’t mind,” I said.

			He pulled his chair back and stood up. I followed his lead.

			“I have them over there, decorating my bedroom,” he said.

			“I’ll stay here,” she said. “I’ll clear the table and make coffee or something.”

			Caretaker opened the door to his bedroom, switched on the light, and showed me in.

			“In here,” he said.

			Several different instruments were lined up against the bedroom wall. All of them looked old enough to count as antiques, and most were string instruments—a mandolin, a guitar, a cello, a small harp. Most of their strings were red with rust or broken or missing. Replacement strings were surely not available in the town.

			One of the instruments was something I had never seen before. Made of wood, it was shaped like a washboard with a row of claw-like metal projections. I picked it up and tried to find a way to play it but could get no sound from it at all. Some small hand drums were lined up there with matching sticks, but I didn’t think I could use them to produce a melody. There was a large wind instrument like a bassoon, but it looked like more than I could handle.

			Caretaker sat on his small wooden bed, watching me examine each of the instruments. His bedspread and pillow looked spotless, the bed neatly made.

			“What do you think?” he asked me. “Do they look usable?”

			“Hmm, I wonder,” I said. “They’re all so old. I’ll have another look at them.”

			He got up from his bed, went over to close the door, and came back. His bedroom had no windows, so the wind sound diminished when he closed the door.

			“Aren’t you wondering why I collect such items?” Caretaker asked. “Nobody in the town has any interest in them. They have no interest in things. Of course, they all have their daily necessities—pots and kitchen knives and sheets and clothing and such. But only what they need. No one wants any more than that. I’m different, though. I’m very interested in things—things like this. Not even I can tell you why. They just attract me—things with complicated shapes, beautiful things.”

			He pressed one hand against his pillow and thrust the other one in his pants pocket.

			“To tell you the truth, I’m very fond of this power plant, too,” he went on. “I like the fan and the meters and the transformers. I might have been sent out here because I had such a tendency to begin with, or possibly the tendency formed as a result of living here alone. I came here so long ago, I’ve forgotten anything before then, which makes me wonder if I can ever go back to the town. They probably won’t accept me as long as I remain like this.”

			I picked up a violin with only two strings left and tried plucking them. They produced a dry staccato sound.

			“Where did you find the instruments in your collection?” I asked.

			“All over,” he said. “I asked the food delivery man to pick them up for me. He finds them buried in closets and storage sheds in people’s houses. Most of the old instruments were used for kindling because they were of no use to anybody, but there were a few still left, and those are the ones he has brought me. Musical instruments have beautiful shapes. I don’t know how to use them and have no desire to do so, but I love to look at them—they’re so complicated and have nothing superfluous about them. I just sit here and stare at them whenever I can. That’s enough to satisfy me. Am I strange to feel that way about them?”

			“No, musical instruments truly are beautiful objects,” I said. “There’s nothing at all strange about your love for them.”

			I took notice of a concertina lying on the floor wedged between a drum and a cello. Picking it up, I saw it had old-fashioned buttons instead of a keyboard. The bellows had grown stiff and hard, and fine cracks had formed in them here and there, but they did not appear to be leaking. I slipped my hands under the straps on either end and gave the instrument a few pulls and squeezes. I was surprised to find how far I had to move the bellows, but if the buttons were working, it should have been playable. Not much could go wrong with a concertina as long as it didn’t leak air, and even if it were leaking, repairs should be easy enough.

			“Do you mind if I make it sound?” I asked.

			“No, go right ahead. That’s what it’s made for,” the young man said.

			I pressed the buttons in order from bottom to top while stretching it out left and right and squeezing it back. Some of the buttons made only feeble sounds, but at least they produced the proper notes in a scale. I pressed the buttons again, this time from top to bottom.

			“What mysterious sounds!” the young man exclaimed. “It’s as if they were changing colors.”

			“Sounds of different pitch come out when I push the buttons,” I explained. “Each one is different. Depending on their pitches, some sounds go together and some sounds don’t go together.”

			“I don’t know what you mean by that—sounds ‘go together’ and ‘don’t go together.’ What does it mean for two sounds to ‘go together’? That they need each other?”

			“Something like that,” I said. I squeezed out a chord at random. The intervals were not exactly right, but the notes matched closely enough so that they did not grate on the ears. I couldn’t remember any songs, though. Only chords.

			“Those are sounds that go together, aren’t they?”

			“That’s right,” I said.

			“I don’t quite get it,” he said. “All I know is that the sounds are mysterious. This is the first time I’ve ever heard sounds like that. I don’t know what to say about them. They’re different from the sound of the wind, and different from birdcalls, too.”

			He rested his hands on his knees and looked back and forth between the concertina and me.

			“Anyhow, I’ll give you that musical instrument. Keep it as long as you want to. Things like that are best kept by people who know how to use them. There’s no point in my having it.” When he finished saying this, he spent some moments listening to the wind sound. “I’ll go check the condition of the machinery again. I have to do an inspection every thirty minutes to make sure the fan is turning properly and the transformers are working without problems, you know. Can I ask you to wait in the other room?”

			When he went out, I returned to the dining-living room and drank the coffee she had made.

			“Is that a musical instrument?” she asked.

			“One kind of musical instrument,” I said. “There are many different types, and they all make different sounds.”

			“It whooshes like a blacksmith’s bellows.”

			“This part is called a bellows. It works the same way.”

			“May I touch it?”

			“Of course,” I said and handed her the concertina. She held it gingerly in both hands as if it were the offspring of some delicate animal, and examined it closely.

			“I don’t know, it’s such a strange thing,” she said with an uneasy smile. “But good for you! You have a musical instrument now. Are you happy?”

			“It was worth coming all the way out here for, I can say that.”

			“They weren’t able to remove his shadow completely. He still has some left—just a little,” she murmured. “That’s why he’s in the Forest. He can’t go deep inside—his heart is not that strong—but he can’t go back to the town, either. I feel sorry for him.”

			“Do you think your mother’s in the Forest, too?”

			“She might be. Or she might not be,” she said. “I don’t know for sure. It just occurred to me she might be.”

			The young man had been away seven or eight minutes when he came back to the house. I thanked him for the instrument and took our gifts for him out of the valise, lining them up on the table: a small travel watch, a chess set, and an oil lighter. I had found them among the suitcases in the materials room.

			“This is a token of my thanks for the instrument. Please accept them,” I said.

			The young man declined to accept the gifts at first but finally relented. He looked at the watch, then at the lighter, and then he studied each of the chess pieces.

			“Do you know how to use them?” I asked.

			“That’s all right, no need,” he said. “They’re beautiful enough just to look at. And I’ll probably figure out how to use them myself. I have nothing but time on my hands.”

			I told him we had to be leaving.

			“Are you in a hurry?” he asked sadly.

			“I need to get back to town before nightfall and take a nap before I go to work,” I said.

			“All right,” he said. “I understand. I’ll see you out. I wish I could accompany you to the Forest entrance, but I can’t leave here while I’m working.”

			The three of us parted outside his little house.

			“Come back again sometime,” he said, “and let me hear the sound of the instrument. You’re always welcome.”

			“Thanks very much,” I said.

			The wind sound weakened little by little as we drew farther from the power plant, and by the time we reached the Forest entrance, it was gone.





29


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Lake, Pantyhose


			To keep our things dry when swimming, the fat girl and I made small bundles wrapped in spare shirts and tied them to our heads. We looked ridiculous but had no time to be laughing at the sight. I made my bundle more compact by leaving behind food, whiskey, and extra equipment, packing only my flashlight, sweater, shoes, wallet, knife, and Murk repeller. She did the same.

			“Take care,” the Doctor said. He looked much older in the gloom than he had when I first met him. His skin had lost its tone, his hair looked as scraggly as a shrub planted in the wrong place, and brown age spots dotted his face. He looked no different from any other tired old man. Even scientific geniuses grow old and die.

			“Goodbye,” I said to him.

			Feeling our way along a rope in the darkness, we descended to the water’s edge. I went down first and flashed a signal from the bottom. She followed me down. Immersing myself in water in the darkness was creepy enough to make me hesitate, but of course I had no choice. I put one leg in first and soon was up to my shoulders. The water was freezing cold, but otherwise presented no problems: it seemed to be ordinary water, of the normal specific gravity and free of contaminants. Our surroundings were as hushed as the bottom of a well. Nothing stirred—not the air nor the water nor the darkness. Only the sounds we made reverberated in the darkness, magnified many times, as if some gigantic aquatic animal were chewing its prey to a pulp. After I entered the water, it occurred to me that I had forgotten to ask the Doctor to treat the pain of my cut.

			“I don’t suppose those clawed fish are in here with us, do you think?” I asked toward where I sensed she might be in the darkness.

			“No, they’re not,” she said. “I’m pretty sure. They’re probably just legendary creatures.”

			Still, I couldn’t quite sweep my head clear of the image of a clawed fish swirling up from the depths and ripping my leg off. The darkness gives rise to all sorts of fear.

			“No leeches?”

			“I wonder. Maybe not,” she said with seeming unconcern.

			Roped together, we swam around the tower, using a slow breaststroke to keep our bundles dry, and discovered the beam of the Doctor’s flashlight at the rear side of the tower. It pierced the darkness in a straight line as if from an inclined lighthouse, coloring one patch of the water’s surface a pale yellow.

			“All we have to do is keep going straight in that direction,” she said. In other words, we’d be all right if our flashlight beams overlapped with the beam striking the water.

			I swam ahead, and she swam behind me, the splash of our strokes alternating. Every once in a while, we would stop swimming, turn around, check our direction, and adjust our course.

			“Be sure to keep your stuff dry,” she called to me as she swam. “The repeller won’t work if you get it wet.”

			“Don’t worry,” I said, but in fact I found it a real struggle to keep my bundle out of the water. With everything enveloped in darkness, I couldn’t be sure where the water’s surface was. I couldn’t even tell where my hands were at times. Swimming, I thought of the river Styx that Orpheus had to cross into the Land of the Dead. There were countless religions and myths in the world, but people’s thoughts regarding death were pretty much the same. Orpheus crossed the dark river in a boat but I was doing the breaststroke with a bundle tied to my head, which made the ancient Greeks a lot more stylish than me. I was concerned about my wound, but worrying wouldn’t make it any better. Fortunately, I was not in great pain, thanks perhaps to my heightened tension, and even if my stitches opened, it wouldn’t be enough to kill me.

			“Are you really not that angry at my grandfather?” the girl asked. Thanks to the darkness and an echo, I couldn’t judge her direction or distance from me.

			“I don’t know. I can’t tell myself,” I shouted at a random angle. Even my own voice sounded as if it were coming from someplace else. “The more he told me, the less it seemed to matter.”

			“The less it seemed to matter?”

			“About my life and about my brain. They’re nothing special.”

			“But you told me you’re satisfied with your life.”

			“Just a figure of speech,” I said. “Every army needs a flag.”

			She gave some thought to my meaning. We swam on in silence—a deep, heavy silence like death itself that reigned over the underground lake. I wondered where those fish could be. I had begun to believe that the eerie clawed fish must actually exist somewhere. Could they be sound asleep beneath the water? Or might they be swimming around in another cavern? Or had they sensed our presence and started heading our way? I shuddered to think of what it would feel like to have those claws grab on to my leg. Whether I would be dying or vanishing in the near future, the least I had to do was avoid being eaten by a fish in this miserable place. If I was going to die, I wanted it to happen under the sun—the old, familiar sun. My arms were tired and heavy from the ice-cold water, but I put all my strength into paddling ahead.

			“But you’re such a nice person,” the girl said without a hint of exhaustion in her voice. She sounded as relaxed as if she were soaking in the bathtub.

			“Not too many people think so,” I said.

			“Well, I do.”

			Swimming along, I turned to look back. The Doctor’s flashlight beam had drawn far into the distance, but my hands had still not touched the rock wall we were aiming for. Why did this stretch have to be so damned long? I was sick of swimming. If he knew it was going to be this far, he should have told me so. Then I could have mentally prepared myself for a long swim. And what about the fish? Had they still not noticed my existence?

			“I don’t mean to make excuses for my grandfather,” the girl said, “but he doesn’t mean any harm. He gets so carried away with his work, he can’t see anything else. Even this started from good intentions. He was trying in his own way to save you by elucidating your secrets before the System could start messing around with you. He’s ashamed—also in his own way—that he cooperated with the System in their misguided experimentation on human subjects. It was wrong.”

			I swam on in silence. A lot of good it did me now to tell me what he did was wrong.

			“So please forgive my grandfather,” the girl said.

			“I’m sure it makes no difference to your grandfather whether or not I forgive him,” I said. “But why did he abandon the project in the middle? If he felt so responsible, shouldn’t he have stayed in the System and continued his research in such a way that it wouldn’t produce any more victims? Okay, so he got sick of working for a big organization, but people are dropping like flies in the System’s continuation of his research.”

			“He lost faith in the System itself,” she said. “He told me the Calcutecs’ System and the Semiotecs’ Factory were the right and left hands of the same person.”

			“What’s that supposed to mean?”

			“In other words, what the System is doing and the Factory is doing are technically almost the same.”

			“Yes, technically. But we Calcutecs are in the business of protecting information while the Semiotecs are busy stealing it. Our goals are totally different.”

			“Think about it, though,” she said. “What if the System and the Factory were being operated by the hands of one and the same person—the left hand stealing and the right hand protecting?”

			I ran my mind over her words while slowly paddling in the darkness. It was an unbelievable proposition, but not totally out of the question. True, I was working for the System, but if somebody were to ask me how the System itself worked—how it was structured—I would have had to confess I had absolutely no idea: it was simply too gigantic, and its internal information was too limited by a policy of secrecy. We just received directives from on high and carried them out—that’s all we were there for. We rank-and-filers had no idea what was happening on top.

			“If what you say is true, it would have to be a fantastically profitable business,” I said. “You could raise prices as high as you liked if you were running both sides against each other. As long as you kept them evenly matched, you wouldn’t have to worry about prices collapsing.”

			“Yes, that’s what dawned on my grandfather while he was pursuing his research in the System: that the System was finally nothing but a private enterprise that had the state caught in its grasp. The purpose of private enterprise is the pursuit of profit. It will do anything for profit. The System advertises its business as the protection of proprietary rights to information, but that’s just a front. My grandfather saw that things would get even worse if he kept up his research. If the technology for altering or modifying the brain were to proceed unchecked, that could ruin the state of the world or of human existence. Somebody had to put the brakes on, but neither the System nor the Factory had any brakes. So my grandfather left the project. He felt sorry for you and the other Calcutecs, but there was no way he could continue his research without producing more and more victims.”

			“I have one question I’d like to ask you,” I said. “Did you know all this from beginning to end? You did, didn’t you?”

			“Yes, I did,” she confessed after some hesitation.

			“Then why didn’t you tell me about it right away? I wouldn’t have had to come to this ridiculous place—not to mention all the time it would have saved me.”

			“Because I wanted my grandfather to be the one to explain it all to you as accurately as possible,” she said. “You might not have believed it from me.”

			“You may be right,” I said. The third circuit, immortality: these were not things I could have believed on the spot.

			After a little more swimming, my fingers bumped up against something hard. Busy with my thoughts, my mind couldn’t tell immediately what this meant, which led to a moment of confusion until I realized that I had touched a rock wall. We had managed to swim across the subterranean lake.

			“We’ve made it,” I said.

			She swam up beside me and confirmed it was a rock wall. I looked back to see the Doctor’s flashlight gleaming in the darkness like a distant star. Following its beam, we shifted some ten meters to the right.

			“It’s probably around here,” she said. “There should be an opening about fifty centimeters above the water level.”

			“Maybe it’s below the water level now,” I suggested.

			“No way,” she said. “It’s positioned so that never happens.”

			I took my small flashlight out of the shirt-wrapped bundle tied to my head, taking care not to spill its contents. Next, keeping my balance by resting one hand in a hollow in the rock wall, I shone my light some fifty centimeters up the wall. It took a long time for my eyes to grow used to the yellow glare on the rock.

			“No hole as far as I can see,” I said.

			“Try moving the light a little more to the right,” she said.

			Shining the light overhead, I moved along the wall, but there was no sign of any hole.

			“To the right? Are you sure?” I asked. Now that I had stopped swimming and was holding still in the water, the cold seemed to be penetrating to my core. Every joint in my body was frozen stiff, and I could hardly open my mouth to speak.

			“Yes, I’m sure,” she said. “A little more to the right.”

			Shivering, I moved again to the right. Before long, my left hand, with which I had been groping my way along the wall, came in touch with a strange-feeling object. It was about the size of an LP record, but it bulged outward like a shield. Tracing the surface with my fingertips, I could tell that it was covered by some kind of detailed carving. I shone the light on it for a close examination.

			“It’s a relief,” she said.

			I couldn’t get my voice to work, so I just nodded. It was indeed a relief, one of the same pattern we had seen when we entered the Murks’ sacred precincts. Two of those creepy clawed fish, each with the other’s tail in its mouth, encircled the globe of the earth. The top two-thirds of the round relief rose above the water like the moon sinking into the sea while the lower third remained sunk in the water. The workmanship here was as fine as that of the one we had seen before. Executing such a well-wrought carving in a place that had only unstable footing must have been a huge effort.

			“That’s the exit,” she said. “Probably all the entrances and exits have reliefs like that. Look up there.”

			I ran the flashlight beam up the wall. The rock protruded somewhat, which cast the upper part in shadow and made it hard to see, but I could tell there was something up there. I handed her the flashlight and started climbing.

			Fortunately, above the relief there was a depression in the wall that enabled me to get a grip with both hands. Exerting all my strength, I pulled my stiff body up until I had one leg over the top of the relief. Then I reached up with my right hand and, grabbing the protruding rock corner, pulled myself up until my head was above the rock. There, to be sure, was a cave opening. The inside was too dark to see anything, but I could feel the slight movement of air, a chilly breeze with the foul smell of a crawl space that had to be coming from a tunnel of some sort. I hooked both elbows over the edge of the rock, set my foot in a cleft in the wall, and pulled myself up and over.

			“The opening is up here!” I shouted down to her, pressing the pain of my cut.

			“Thank goodness!” she called back.

			I took the flashlight from her and pulled her up. We sat side by side on the edge of the cave opening for a while, shivering. I felt so cold, it was as if I had put my soaking-wet pants and shirt into a freezer to stiffen them up or swum across a giant glass of whiskey and water.

			We lowered the bundles from our heads and untied them, changing into dry shirts. I gave her my sweater. Our sopping-wet shirts and jackets we threw away. We were still wet from the waist down, but neither of us had brought spare pants or underwear.

			While she checked the Murk repellers, I flashed my light several times toward the top of the “tower” to let the Doctor know we had made it to the cave opening. His yellow point of light flashed a few times and went out, returning the world to total darkness—a world of nothingness, of unknowable distance, thickness, and depth.

			“Let’s go,” she said. I flicked my wristwatch light on and checked the time. It was 7:18, when all the TV stations were broadcasting the morning news and people on the surface were eating breakfast and forcing their not-quite-awake heads to absorb the weather report and commercials for headache remedies and improvements in the U.S. car-export problem. None of them, however, knew that I had spent the whole night wandering through a subterranean labyrinth, that I had been swimming through ice water and having my blood sucked out by leeches and suffering the pain of the cut in my belly, and that the world of my reality would be ending in another twenty-eight hours and forty-two minutes. They didn’t know because the news shows would never tell them about it.



* * *



			—

			 				The hole was much narrower than any passage we had yet come through. We could make our way inside it only by crawling on our hands and knees. Worse, it was as twisted as a gut, winding up and down and side to side, dropping like a shaft at one point and making us climb straight up the next. Sometimes it traced a complicated loop like a roller-coaster track. Thanks to all these twists and turns, we could move ahead only with a tremendous expenditure of time and trouble. The passage had almost certainly not been dug by the Murks but had been formed by natural erosion. Not even they would have taken all the trouble to make it.

			After moving ahead for thirty minutes, we switched Murk repellers, and after another ten minutes of walking, the narrow, convoluted passage finally ended. This brought us out to an open area where the ceiling suddenly shot up. The place was like the foyer of an old building—dark, silent, and musty-smelling. It ended in a T-shaped intersection, where we could feel a gentle breeze blowing from right to left. She aimed her big flashlight first down the right-branching road and then down the left-branching road. Both headed straight away from us to where they were swallowed up in the darkness.

			“Which way do you think we should go?” I asked.

			“To the right,” she said. “That’s the proper direction, and the breeze is blowing from there. Grandfather said this puts us at Sendagaya, and we should probably turn right toward Jingu Stadium.”

			I tried to imagine how things were laid out up top. If she was right, there should have been two ramen shops side by side, the Kawade Shobo publishers and the Victor studios just overhead. There was a barbershop nearby, too. I had been getting my haircuts there for a good ten years.

			“My barber’s near here,” I said.

			“Oh?” she answered without much interest.

			I thought it might not be a bad idea to go there for a haircut before the world ended. I couldn’t do much in twenty-four hours or so—maybe take a bath, change into fresh clothes, and go to the barber’s. That was about it.

			“Better be on the lookout,” she said. “I think we’re getting close to the Murks’ lair. I can hear their voices, and I can smell them. Phew. Stick close to me.”

			I perked my ears up and sniffed the air, but I couldn’t hear or smell anything I thought might be them. I sensed I might be hearing some strange whistling sound waves, but I couldn’t catch them clearly enough to be sure.

			“Do you think they know we’re getting close?”

			“Of course they do,” she said. “We’re in Murk territory now. They know everything that happens here. They’re all angry now that we passed through their sacred space and are approaching their lair. If they can grab us, they’ll do something terrible to us. So don’t get too far from me. Otherwise, they’ll reach out from the darkness and drag you off somewhere.”

			We shortened our rope so there would be no more than fifty centimeters between us.

			“Be careful, this wall is gone,” she said sharply, swinging her light to the left. She was not mistaken: the wall on that side had disappeared before I knew it, leaving only a dense dark space. Her light beam pierced the darkness like an arrow, to be swallowed up by a still deeper darkness straight out there that seemed to be a living, breathing, squirming gelatinous mass.

			“Do you hear them?” she asked.

			“I do,” I said.

			Now even I could hear the voices of the Murks, though they sounded less like voices than a ringing in the ears. It could have been the droning of a million insects that penetrated my ears like drill bits cutting through the dark, reverberating against the stone walls and twisting my eardrums into weird angles. I wanted to fling my flashlight away, crouch down on the ground, and slap my hands over my ears. I felt as if their hatred for us were scraping like a file against every nerve in my body.

			Their hatred was different from any I had ever experienced before, like a violent wind blowing up from the pit of Hell and pressing against us, trying to tear us apart. It was an emotion so dark it could have been a concentrated mixture of all the subterranean darknesses combined into a gigantic mass that weighed down on us with the warped, polluted flow of time in a world devoid of light or eyes. I had not known until that moment how much weight sheer hatred could have.

			“Don’t stop!” she yelled into my ear, her voice hard and dry and unwavering. Only then did I realize that my legs were no longer moving.

			She gave a sharp yank on the rope that joined our waists. “We can’t stop! If we stop, we’re done for! They’ll drag us into the darkness!”

			But my legs would not move. The Murks’ hatred was pressing my feet to the ground. I felt as if time were running backward, rushing toward memories of a horrific antiquity. I could no longer go anywhere at all.

			Her hand cut through the darkness and slammed into my cheek, striking with such force I went momentarily deaf.

			“Right!” I heard her shouting. “Right! Don’t you get it? Right foot forward! Right, I’m telling you, you idiot!”

			With a creak, my right leg began to move and I was finally able to lift it. I sensed a faint note of disappointment mixed in with the Murks’ voices.

			“Left!” she shouted, and I moved my left leg ahead.

			“That’s it! That’s the way! Slow and steady, one step at a time! All right?”

			All right, I told her, though even I was not sure I had gotten the words out. I knew only that, as she had said, the Murks were trying to drag us into the dense darkness. They were worming fear into us through our ears, using it first to stop our feet and then to reel us in close enough to grab.

			Once I got my feet moving, I felt a strong urge to start running, to escape from this horrible place as soon as possible.

			As if she could read my mind, she reached out and clamped her hand around my wrist.

			“Shine your light at your feet,” she said. “Keep your back against the wall and walk sideways, one step at a time. Get it?”

			“I get it,” I said.

			“Absolutely do not raise your light any higher than that.”

			“Why not?”

			“Because the Murks are right there!” she whispered. “You must not look at them, under any circumstances. If you see them, you won’t be able to walk anymore.”

			We walked sideways, one step at a time, checking our footing with our flashlights. A chilly wind grazed our cheeks now and then, bearing the stink of dead fish. I thought I was going to choke with every puff. I felt trapped inside the carcass of a giant fish that had maggots crawling all over its oozing guts. The Murks kept up their hideous squealing as if someone were squeezing sound out of a place where sound should not exist. My eardrums stiffened, twisted, and sour-smelling saliva welled up in my mouth.

			Still, reflexively, my legs continued moving sideways. I concentrated all my attention on lifting my right leg and left leg by turns. The girl called out to me now and then, but I couldn’t hear what she was saying. As long as I lived, I would never be able to erase the sound of their voices from my memory. Sometime, once again, I knew, their voices would assault me along with the deep darkness. And inevitably their slimy hands would grab me by the ankles.

			I had lost track of how much time had passed since we entered this nightmarish world. The green operating lamp was still showing on the Murk repeller in her hand, so not that much time could have gone by, but to me it felt like two or three hours.

			Soon, though, I felt a change in the air flow. The stench had lessened, the pressure on my ears ebbed like the tide, and sounds reverberated differently. The Murks’ voices, I noticed, had faded to the level of a distant ocean roar. We had made it through the worst part. She raised her light, and its beam fell on another rock wall. We leaned against the wall behind us and let out deep sighs. I wiped the cold sweat clinging to my face with the back of my hand.

			Neither of us said anything for a long while. The distant Murk voices eventually faded, and silence enveloped us again. We heard only the faint, hollow sound of droplets hitting the ground somewhere.

			“What do they hate so much?” I asked her.

			“The world of light and the people who live there,” she said.

			“I can’t believe the Semiotecs would join forces with such horrible creatures, whatever it gains them.”

			She made no reply. Instead, she squeezed my wrist again.

			“Do you know what I’m thinking now?” she asked.

			“No idea,” I said.

			“How wonderful it would be if I could go with you to that world you’ll be heading to.”

			“And leave this world behind?”

			“Yes, of course,” she said, “it’s such a stupid world. I bet it would be much more fun to live in your consciousness.”

			I shook my head without saying a word. I didn’t want to live in my own consciousness or anybody else’s.

			“Anyhow, let’s keep going,” she said. “We can’t just stay here wasting time forever. We have to find the sewer that leads outside. I wonder what time it is?”

			I pushed the button that illuminated my watch. My fingers were still trembling a little. It would probably take a while for the trembling to stop.

			“Eight twenty,” I said.

			“Time to switch repellers,” she said, starting up the fresh device, switching the used one to recharge mode, and casually shoving it into her waistband. Just an hour had gone by since we climbed into the cave. According to the Doctor, a little way ahead we should come to a road that turned left toward the gingko-treelined promenade in front of the Meiji Memorial Picture Gallery. Once we got that far, it should be no distance to the subway tracks—an extension of the civilization up on the surface. That meant we’d finally manage to escape the Murks’ country.

			After we continued on a bit farther, the road took its expected ninety-degree turn to the left. At that point we were probably beneath the parallel rows of gingko trees. It was still early autumn, so the trees must be as green as ever. I pictured the warm sunlight, imagined the smell of green grass, and felt the first autumn breezes. I wanted to lie there for hours, looking at the sky. First, I’d go to the barber’s for a haircut, walk straight to the Meiji Shrine’s outer garden, stretch out on the lawn, and look at the sky. Then I’d down lots of cold beer. Before the world ended.

			“Think it’s a nice day out there?” I asked the girl walking ahead of me.

			“Hmm, I wonder. Who knows?” she said.

			“You didn’t see the weather report?”

			“Not at all. I was looking for your place all day.”

			I tried to recall whether there had been stars in the sky when I left the house the night before, but it was hopeless. All I could bring back was the young couple listening to Duran Duran on the stereo in their Nissan Skyline. I couldn’t remember a thing about the stars. Come to think of it, I had not looked up at the stars for months. I would not have noticed if all the stars had been swept out of the sky three months before. All I had seen and remembered was stuff like the silver bracelets on the young woman’s wrist or the Popsicle sticks tossed in a potted rubber plant. The thought made me feel I had lived an insufficient, misdirected life. I could just as well have been born a Yugoslavian shepherd looking up at the Big Dipper every night. The Skyline, the silver bracelets, Duran Duran, shuffling, my dark-blue tweed suit: all felt like dreams from a distant past. My memories were crushed flat, the way a hydraulic press can turn a whole car into a flattened piece of steel, only this convoluted mass of memories was now no thicker than a credit card. Viewed straight on, the card was just a little misshapen, but from the side it was nothing but a nearly meaningless thin line. All of me was certainly crammed inside it, but the thing itself was nothing but a plastic card, entirely meaningless until slid into a machine made expressly for deciphering it.

			I imagined that my first circuit must be wearing thin, which was probably why my realistic memories felt so flat and distanced. No doubt my consciousness was gradually separating from my current self. And that identity card of mine would surely grow thinner and thinner until it was nothing more than a sheet of paper which finally vanished into thin air.

			While mechanically moving my legs to keep up with her, I thought once again about the couple in the Skyline. Why I was so fixated on them, I had no idea, but nothing else came to mind. What could they be doing now?, I wondered, but I couldn’t imagine what they might be doing at eight thirty in the morning. They might still be sound asleep in bed. Or they might be on separate subways commuting to their respective offices. I had no way of knowing which might be true. My imagination and the movements of the real world were not well connected. If I were a writer of TV dramas, I would surely fashion a suitable plot for them. While studying abroad, she marries a Frenchman, but her husband gets involved in a terrible traffic accident and becomes a vegetable. Tiring of such a life, she abandons her husband and returns to Tokyo, where she works at the Belgian or Swiss embassy. Her silver bracelets are mementos of her marriage. Here the scene flashes back to the winter seashore at Nice. She is always wearing her bracelets, even while bathing or having sex. The young man is a survivor of the 1968 student occupation of Yasuda Auditorium at the University of Tokyo. Like the lead character in the film Ashes and Diamonds, he wears sunglasses all the time. A star TV director, he has frequent dreams of teargas and moans in his sleep. His wife killed herself five years earlier by slashing her left wrist. Another flashback. (This drama has a lot of flashbacks.) Whenever he sees the bracelets moving on his girlfriend’s left wrist, he thinks of the wide-open wound on his wife’s wrist gushing blood, so he asks his girlfriend to switch her bracelets to her right wrist. She refuses. “I will only wear my bracelets on my left wrist,” she says.

			It might be a good idea to bring a Casablanca-style pianist into the action. An alcoholic pianist. He keeps a glass of gin on his piano—straight with a twist of lemon. He’s a mutual friend of the young man and the young woman, and he knows the secrets of both. He was a gifted jazz pianist but ruined himself with drink.

			I had gotten that far with the plot when I realized how ridiculous the whole thing was and quit thinking about it. It had nothing to do with reality. But what was reality? The more I thought about that, the more confused I became. Reality was dull and heavy and shapeless, like sand stuffed into a big cardboard carton. I hadn’t even seen the stars in months.

			“I don’t think I can take it anymore,” I said.

			“Take what?” she asked.

			“All of it—the darkness, the moldy stink, the Murks. My wet pants, my belly cut. I don’t even know what the weather’s like outside. What day is it today?”

			“Soon,” she said, “it’ll end soon.”

			“My head’s a mess,” I said. “I can’t remember what it’s like out there. I can’t think straight.”

			“So don’t think. I’ll get you out of here soon,” she said.

			I made up my mind not to think about anything. Once I did that, the cold, wet pants clinging to my legs began to bother me. They were giving me a chill and making me aware of the dull ache of my belly cut. In spite of the chill, I felt no need to pee. When had I last peed? I sifted through my memories, trying to recall, but nothing worked. I just couldn’t remember my last pee.

			At the very least, I hadn’t gone even once since entering the underground. Before that? Before that, I was driving. I ate a hamburger and saw the young couple in the Skyline. Before that? Before that, I was sleeping. The fat girl came and woke me up. Had I peed then? Probably not. She had pushed and shaken me awake like stuffing clothes into a suitcase and taken me straight out. There had been no time for a pee. Before that? I couldn’t remember clearly what had happened before that. I had gone to the doctor’s, probably. The doctor had stitched my belly closed. What kind of doctor? I didn’t know. A doctor. A doctor in a white coat had stitched me together just above the top edge of my pubic hair. Had I peed around then?

			I didn’t know.

			Probably not. If I had peed just before or after that, I should have a clear memory of the pain my cut gave me then. That I had no such memory meant I had not peed, which meant I had not peed for a very long time. How many hours had it been?

			Thinking about the time made my mind as chaotic as a chicken coop at dawn. Twelve hours? Twenty-eight hours? Thirty-two hours? Where could my pee have faded away to? In the meantime, I had drunk beer, I had drunk cola, I had drunk whiskey. Where had all that liquid gone?

			No, it might have been the day before yesterday when I was cut and went to the doctor. Yesterday seemed to have been an entirely different day from that. But what kind of day had yesterday been? I had absolutely no idea. Yesterday was nothing but a single vague chunk of time. It was shaped like a giant onion that had swollen up from sucking water in. Nothing about it was certain: What was located where? Where would you have to push it to make something come out, and what would that be?

			All these happenings approached and receded again and again like wooden horses on a merry-go-round. When had those guys sliced open my belly? Before I sat waiting at the supermarket coffee stand at daybreak, or after? When had I last peed? And why was I so concerned about that?

			“Here it is!” she said, turning to firmly grasp my elbow. “The sewer! The way out!”

			I swept all thoughts of pee from my brain and looked at the section of wall caught by her flashlight. There was a square cave opening like some kind of exhaust duct just big enough for a person to crawl through.

			“That’s no sewer,” I said.

			“The sewer’s through there, on the other side. This is a tunnel to the sewer. See, you can smell it.”

			I stuck my face into the opening and sniffed. Yes, the familiar sewer smell. Having gone around and around in circles through the underground maze, I found even the stink of a sewer a fond memory. I could tell, too, there was a distinct movement of wind through the tunnel. Before long, the ground started to tremble slightly, and through the hole I heard the sound of a subway train passing in the distance. It lasted ten or fifteen seconds, after which it slowly faded away like the water from a spigot being gradually turned off. No question: this was the way out.

			“I think we made it,” she said, and planted a kiss on my neck. “How do you feel?”

			“Don’t ask,” I said. “I can’t tell how I feel.”

			She crawled headfirst into the hole. After her soft-looking bottom disappeared into the cave, I followed her in. The narrow passageway continued straight ahead for a ways. All my flashlight caught was her bottom and calves. Her calves reminded me of some smooth, white Chinese vegetables. Her sopping-wet skirt stuck to her thighs like orphaned children.

			“Are you back there?” she yelled.

			“Right here,” I yelled back.

			“There’s a shoe on the ground here.”

			“What kind of shoe?”

			“A man’s shoe, black leather, just one.”

			I found it soon enough. It was an old shoe with a worn-down heel, the toe covered with hardened white mud.

			“I wonder what this is doing here,” I said.

			“I wonder,” she said. “Maybe it fell off from somebody the Murks grabbed.”

			“Maybe so,” I said.

			With nothing else to look at, I kept an eye on her skirt as I crawled ahead. It pulled up to the top of her thighs every now and then, revealing soft, white skin unmarked by mud. In the old days, this would have been the exposed area where the tops of the stockings were hooked to the girdle—before the appearance of pantyhose.

			The sight of her skin reminded me of those old days—when Jimi Hendrix, Cream, the Beatles, Otis Redding, and people like that were big. I whistled the first few bars of Peter and Gordon’s “I Go to Pieces.” Nice song. Sweet and sad. Way better than Duran Duran. Maybe I felt that way because I was getting old. It was popular twenty years ago. Who could have predicted pantyhose twenty years ago?

			“Why are you whistling?” she shouted.

			“I don’t know, I just felt like it,” I answered.

			“What song is that?”

			I told her what it was called.

			“I don’t know that one.”

			“Because it was popular before you were born.”

			“What’s it about?”

			“About physically falling apart.”

			“Why would you whistle a song like that?”

			I gave it some thought but couldn’t find a reason. It had just popped into my head.

			“I don’t know,” I said.

			While I was trying to remember another song, we came to the sewer, which was nothing but a big concrete pipe about a meter and a half in diameter with water running through the bottom about two centimeters deep. Some kind of slippery moss was growing on either side of the water. From up ahead came the sound of yet another subway train—there had been several—and now it was loud enough to count as noisy. I could even catch a faint yellow glimmer there.

			“Why do you think the sewer hooks up with the subway?” I asked.

			“This is not strictly speaking a sewer,” she said. “It just collects this area’s spring water and sends it to the ditches along the subway tracks. The water ends up dirty, though, because of the wastewater that seeps into it. What time do you have?”

			“Nine fifty-three,” I said.

			She brought a Murk repeller out of her skirt, switched it on, and exchanged it with the one we had been using.

			“All right, then, just a little way to go. Don’t let your guard down, though. The Murks’ power reaches all the way into the stations. You saw that shoe before?”

			“Absolutely,” I said.

			“Creep you out?”

			“Totally.”

			We followed the flowing water through the concrete pipe, the splashing of our rubber-soled shoes echoing in the pipe like the smacking of lips, to be drowned out by the sound of trains coming and going. Never in my life had I been so happy to hear a subway running. It felt like the vital roar of life itself, filled with brilliant light, with passengers of all kinds aboard, reading their newspapers and magazines, each heading to a different destination. I thought of the colorful ads hanging from the ceilings and the subway-route maps above the doors. The Ginza Line was always shown in yellow. Why yellow I had no idea, but that’s the way it had to be, which is why I always thought of yellow whenever the Ginza Line came to mind.

			It didn’t take us long to reach the end of the pipe. An iron grille covered the opening, but just enough of it was torn away for a person to pass through. The concrete pipe was deeply gouged where a bar had been pulled out. This was obviously the work of the Murks, but for once I had to be grateful for them. If the grille had been intact, we would have been stuck there within sight of the outside world.

			Outside the round exit, we saw a signal light and some kind of square wooden box that looked as if it must be for equipment storage. Separating the two roadbeds were blackened concrete pillars that stood there like regularly spaced posts. Lamps attached to the pillars filled the tunnel with a dim glow, but to my eyes the lamps seemed to give off an intense glare, so used had my eyes become to the subterranean darkness.

			“Let’s wait here awhile and let our eyes get used to the light,” she said. “Ten or fifteen minutes should do it. Then we can go a little farther and let our eyes adjust to stronger light. Otherwise, we won’t be able to see anything. And absolutely do not look at any subways that pass by. Got it?”

			“Got it,” I said.

			Taking my arm, she sat me down on a dry section of concrete and settled by my side. She grabbed my right arm above the elbow with both hands as if to keep me from falling over.

			We heard a subway train coming, bowed our heads, and clamped our eyes shut. Yellow flashes grazed my eyelids for a while, eventually disappearing along with the painful roar of the passing train. Large teardrops fell from my eyes because of the intense glare. I wiped the tears running down my cheeks with my shirtsleeve.

			“It’s all right, our eyes will adjust right away,” she said, her cheeks streaked with tears. “Just let another three or four trains go by. Then we can get close to the station without hurting our eyes, and once we go that far, not even the Murks will be able to attack us. We can go up to the surface.”

			“I remember something like this happening to me once before,” I said.

			“You mean walking through a subway tunnel?”

			“No, of course not. The light. Spilling tears from this kind of glare.”

			“That happens to everybody,” she said.

			“No, not like this. I had special eyes, and the light was special. And it was tremendously cold. Like now, my eyes were accustomed to the gloom for a very long time, and I couldn’t look at bright light. There was something special about my eyes.”

			“Can you remember anything else?”

			“No, nothing else.”

			“I’m sure your memory is running backwards,” she said.

			She was leaning against me, and I could feel the swell of her breast against my arm the whole time. Wearing sopping-wet pants, I was chilled all over, but the part of me against her breast was warm.

			“Do you have any plans for when we get up to the surface—like, where you’re going to go or what you’re going to do or somebody you want to see?” She looked down at my watch. “You’ve got another twenty-five hours and fifty minutes.”

			“I want to go home and take a bath. Change my clothes. Maybe go to the barber’s after that,” I said.

			“You’ll still have time left.”

			“What happens afterward I’ll think about afterward,” I said.

			“Can I go home with you?” she asked. “I’d like to take a bath and change my clothes, too.”

			“No problem,” I said.

			A second train came from the direction of Aoyama-itchome. We lowered our heads again and closed our eyes. The light was still blinding, but it didn’t produce as many tears.

			“Your hair’s not so grown in that you have to go to the barber’s,” she said, shining her light on my head. “Besides, you look better with longer hair.”

			“I’m tired of long hair.”

			“Still, you don’t need a haircut. When’s the last time you went to a barber?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. I tried hard but couldn’t recall my last trip to a barber. I couldn’t even remember when I had peed yesterday, let alone something from a couple of weeks ago, which felt like ancient history.

			“Do you have clothes my size at your place?”

			“I wonder. Probably not.”

			“Oh, well, I’ll manage,” she said. “Are you going to use your bed?”

			“Use my bed?”

			“Call a girl, I mean. For sex.”

			“No, that hadn’t occurred to me,” I said. “Probably not.”

			“So, can I take a nap? I’d like to get some sleep before I go back to my grandfather.”

			“I have no problem with that, but there’s some chance that Semiotecs or System people might come barging into my place. I’m suddenly very popular these days, and my door doesn’t lock.”

			“That doesn’t worry me,” she said.

			It really didn’t worry her, I thought—most likely. People have different things they worry about.

			A third train came by, this time from Shibuya, and passed directly in front of us. I closed my eyes and started slowly counting inside my head. The rear end of the train passed us when I hit fourteen. My eyes were hardly hurting anymore, which meant we had overcome the first stage of preparing to go up to the surface, and that meant the Murks wouldn’t be grabbing us and lowering us down a well, and those giant fish wouldn’t be chomping us to bits.

			“All right, then,” she said, releasing my arm and standing up, “let’s get going.”

			I nodded and stood, following her down to the tracks. We started walking toward Aoyama-itchome Station.





30


			End of the World


			Pit


			When I awoke the next morning, all the events in the Forest felt as if they had occurred in a dream. But there was no way that could have been a dream. The old concertina lay on the table curled up like a wounded little animal. Everything had been there in reality—the fan that spun in the wind surging up from underground, the sad-faced young Caretaker, his collection of musical instruments.

			Apart from all those real things, a strangely unrealistic sound kept going in my head as if there were something stabbing my brain. The sound continued without letup as if it were thrusting some flat object into my head. Not that my head hurt or anything. It was totally normal, just unrealistic.

			Lying in bed, I looked around my room but saw nothing changed. The ceiling, the four walls, the slightly warped floorboards, the window curtains: all were the same as usual. The table was there, and the concertina on the table. My coat and scarf hung on the walls, my gloves showing from the coat pockets.

			I tested each part of my body to see if it was moving all right. Everything was fine. My eyes were not hurting. Nothing was wrong with me.

			Even so, that flat sound kept going in my head. It was irregular and mixed, an intertwining of several similar sounds. I tried to see where it might be coming from, but its direction was lost on me no matter how hard I listened. It seemed to be emanating from inside my head.

			I had to check, and when I got out of bed to look out the window, I was finally able to grasp the source of the sound. Three old men were digging a big pit in the vacant lot beneath the window, and their shovel blades were cutting into the frozen earth. The stinging cold air set the sounds to doing a strange dance that threw me off, or perhaps my nerves were strained from so many things having happened in rapid succession.

			The hands of my clock showed something close to ten, the first time I had ever slept so late. Why hadn’t the Colonel wakened me? Aside from the time of my fever, he had never failed to wake me by nine and bring in a tray with our breakfasts.

			I waited until ten thirty, but still the Colonel did not appear. I gave up and went down to the kitchen, where I was given bread and a drink, returning to my room to eat alone. Long used to breakfasting with the Colonel, I didn’t enjoy the food much that day. I ate half the bread and saved the rest for the beasts. I sat still on my bed, wrapped in my coat and waiting for the stove to warm the room.

			To be sure, yesterday’s unbelievable warmth had faded overnight, and the usual oppressive cold air filled my room. Strong winds, at least, had not come up again, but winter was back in full force out there, and stifling, snow-laden clouds hung low in the sky, stretching from North Ridge to the southern wasteland.

			Four old men were still down there below the window, digging their pit.

			Four old men?

			There had definitely been three of them when I looked before. Three old men had been digging a pit with shovels, but now there were four of them. I imagined that one more had joined the effort in the meantime. There was nothing mysterious about that. The residence had more old men living there than you could count. Now each old man was standing in his separate place around the pit, silently digging the earth at his feet. Fitful winds blew every now and then, flapping the hems of their thin jackets wildly, but the cold did not seem to bother them. Their cheeks crimson, they went on thrusting their shovel blades into the ground without pausing. One of them had even worked up a sweat and taken off his jacket, hanging it like a cast-off cicada shell on a tree branch, where it swayed in the breeze.

			When my room grew warmer, I sat in a chair and picked the concertina up from the table, slowly compressing and stretching its bellows. Once I had gotten it back to my room and examined it closely, I had realized that the instrument was much more finely made than my first impression in the Forest had led me to believe. The buttons and bellows were discolored with age, but no paint was chipped from its wooden panels, and the finely rendered arabesque edging was fully intact. It was almost more a work of art than a musical instrument. The bellows had of course grown stiff with age, but not so much as to render it unusable. It must have been left untouched for a long time, but I had no idea what kind of person had once played it or by what route it had found its way to the power plant. Everything was wrapped in an enigma.

			Both for its decorative value and for its functionality as an instrument, the concertina was exquisite. First of all, it was tiny. Folded, it fit easily into my coat pocket. Not that its usefulness as a musical instrument had been sacrificed for size. It had all the features that a concertina should have.

			I operated the bellows a few times, and after getting the feel of it, I tried each of the right-hand buttons in turn and pressed the left-hand chord buttons. After running through many of its sounds, I rested my hands and listened for other sounds in the vicinity.

			The sounds of the old men digging the pit continued. Their four shovels biting into the earth set up an uneven rhythm that resounded in my room with strange clarity. The wind rattled the window now and then. Beyond the window I could see the snow-dotted hills. I wondered if the old men could hear the concertina, concluding that they probably could not. It didn’t produce much volume, and the wind was blowing the other way.

			I had played an accordion in the distant past, and it had been a new-style keyboard-type instrument, so getting used to the workings and the button layout of this old-fashioned concertina took me a lot of time and effort. Not only was it made to be small, but the buttons themselves were so small and close together the instrument would have been hard enough for a woman or child to play, not to mention a grown-up man with big hands. You also had to stretch and squeeze the bellows in rhythm.

			Still, after an hour or two of practice, I was able to improvise a few simple chords without error, but no melodies came to mind. I pressed buttons over and over, trying to recall something like a melody, but I produced only meaningless rows of notes that led me nowhere. Every once in a while, an accidental arrangement of notes would come close to reminding me of something, but it would get sucked into the air right away and evaporate.

			I felt the noise of the old men’s shoveling was at least partially to blame for my inability to come up with even a single melody. It was certainly preventing me from concentrating. The sound of their shovels reached my ears with such clarity, I soon began to feel as if they might be digging a pit in my head. The more they dug, the bigger the empty space in my head seemed to grow.

			The wind suddenly picked up before noon, swirling snow aloft. I heard the dry patter of snow pellets striking the windowpane, and hard little clumps of frozen snow fell on the sash in uneven layers before being blown away. This wasn’t the kind of snow that stuck, but soon it would surely change into large, moist clumps. That was always the order, and eventually the earth would be covered in white. Hard snow was always a precursor of a heavy snowfall.

			The old men continued digging their pit, though, seemingly unconcerned with the snow, as if they had known all along that it was coming. None of them looked up at the sky or rested their hands or spoke. Even the jacket hanging on the tree branch stayed where it was, flapping in the wind.

			The number of old men had increased to six. The two new ones were using a pick and a pushcart. The one with the pick had climbed down into the pit and was using it to break up the hard earth. The one with the cart was using a shovel to scoop up the dirt that had been thrown out of the pit and piling it into the cart, which he pushed over to the slope and emptied. The men were now waist-deep in the pit. The howling of the wind was not loud enough to blot out the sound of the pick and shovels.

			I gave up trying to find a song, dropped the concertina on the table, and went over to the window to watch the old men at work. None of them seemed to be the leader. All worked equally hard, and no one gave orders. The one with the pick did a great job of breaking up the dirt, the other four in the pit shoveled it out, and the sixth man carted it away with silent concentration.

			The more I watched them working on the pit, though, the more questions I had about the operation. Why was the pit so large, for one thing? It seemed larger than necessary for discarding trash. And why were they digging it now, as a major snowfall was just beginning? Maybe the pit had some special purpose. But even so, the wind would be filling it with snow, and it would be covered over by tomorrow morning. The old men could obviously tell as much by observing the movement of the clouds. North Ridge was already half hidden by the relentless snowfall.

			Ponder as I might, the point of the old men’s work evaded me. I went back to the stove, pulled up a chair, and stared at the red coal fire without a thought in mind. I felt I would probably not be able to recall a song. Whether or not I had a musical instrument made no difference. I could produce all the notes I wanted, but without a song, they would amount to nothing more than a string of sounds. The concertina on the table was just a beautiful object. I seemed to grasp what the power plant’s Caretaker had said about the instruments. There was no need to make sounds with them: they were beautiful just to look at. I closed my eyes and went on listening to the snow hitting the windowpane.



* * *



			—

			When lunchtime came, the old men finally stopped working and came back inside the residence. The pick and shovels lay on the ground where the men had dropped them.

			I was sitting on a chair by the window, looking at the now empty pit, when the Colonel came from the next room and knocked on my door. He wore his usual heavy coat and had his visored work cap pulled down low. White clumps of snow stuck to both.

			“Looks like we’re going to get a lot of snow on the ground tonight,” he said. “Want me to bring lunch?”

			“I’d like that very much,” I said.

			He came back ten minutes later carrying a pot in both hands and set it on the stove. Then he deliberately shed his hat, coat, and gloves like a crustacean molting at a change of seasons. Finally, he ran his fingers through his tangled white hair and sat down, sighing.

			“Sorry I couldn’t come for breakfast this morning,” the old man said. “I had so much work to do, I had no time to eat.”

			“Don’t tell me you were one of the men digging the pit?”

			“The pit? Oh, that one outside. No, that’s not my job. Not that I dislike digging pits,” the Colonel said with a chuckle. “I was working in town.”

			When the pot warmed up, he spooned the contents onto two plates and set them on the table. It was a vegetable stew with noodles. He blew on his to cool it and ate his first spoonful with obvious pleasure.

			“What is that pit for?” I asked the Colonel.

			“It’s not for anything,” he said, bringing another spoonful to his mouth. “They’re just digging for the sake of digging. In that sense, it’s a very pure pit.”

			“I don’t understand.”

			“It’s simple,” he said. “They’re digging the pit because they want to dig a pit. It has no other purpose.”

			I chewed my bread and ran my mind over the pure pit.

			“They dig pits now and then,” the old man said. “It’s basically the same thing as my passion for chess. It doesn’t mean anything or lead anywhere. But that’s all right. Nobody needs meaning or wants to end up anywhere. We’re all digging our pure pits here. Don’t you think it’s wonderful—action without purpose, effort without progress, walks that lead nowhere? No one hurting or being hurt. No one passing or being passed. No victory, no defeat.”

			“I think I understand what you’re saying.”

			The old man nodded several times and tipped his plate to take his last spoonful of stew.

			“Some of the principles on which this town is founded may appear strange to you, but to us they’re perfectly natural—natural and pure and peaceful. You’ll come to see it our way, I’m sure. I hope you will. I spent my life as a soldier for many years, and I have no regrets. It was an enjoyable life in its own way. Sometimes even now I recall the smell of gunsmoke and blood, the flash of bayonets, the bugle sounding the charge, but I can’t recall what spurred us on to battle—glory or patriotism or a lust for combat or sheer hatred? You might be afraid now to lose your heart. That used to frighten me, too. It’s nothing to be ashamed of.” Here the Colonel stopped himself and stared off into space as if searching for the proper words. “But once you let go of your heart, peace comes to take its place—a profound peace such as you have never tasted. Be sure you never forget that.”

			I nodded in silence.

			“Come to think of it, when I was in town, I heard something about your shadow,” the Colonel said, swabbing up the last of his stew with a piece of bread. “They say he’s not well, that he can’t keep his food down, and he’s been stuck in bed for three days in that basement room of his. He may not have much longer to live. It might be a good idea for you to look in on him if you wouldn’t mind. I’m told he wants to see you.”

			“Hmm, I wonder,” I said, feigning indecision. “I don’t mind going, but do you think Gatekeeper will let me see him?”

			“Of course he will. Your shadow’s dying. A person has a right to see his shadow. That’s the rule. In this town, the death of a shadow is a solemn ritual. Not even Gatekeeper can stand in the way. He has no reason to stand in the way.”

			“All right,” I said after a pause, “I’ll go now.”

			“Good,” he said, patting me on the shoulder. “You’d better go before evening comes and the snow gets deep. When all’s said and done, a person’s shadow is the closest thing he has. You’ll feel better about it afterwards if you attend him nicely on his deathbed. Let him end his life well. It might be painful, but do it for your own sake.”

			“I know what you mean,” I said, putting on my coat and scarf.





31


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Ticket Gate, the Police, Detergent


			It wasn’t far from the end of the pipe to Aoyama-itchome Station. We walked along the tracks, ducking behind pillars whenever a train passed by. We could see the train interiors clearly, but none of the passengers inside noticed us. No one was observing the outside scenery. They were reading newspapers or staring at nothing much. A subway is just a practical means of conveying people from one urban space to another. Nobody is thrilled to ride the subway.

			There were not many passengers on the trains. Almost no one was standing. The peak of the rush hour had passed, to be sure, but as far as I could remember, the Ginza Line after ten in the morning should have been more crowded.

			“What day of the week is it again?” I asked the girl.

			“I don’t know. I never think about that,” she said.

			“There are too few passengers for a weekday,” I said, cocking my head. “Maybe it’s Sunday.”

			“What difference would that make?”

			“No difference. It would just be Sunday,” I said.

			Walking along the subway tracks was a lot easier than I had imagined it would be. It was roomy down there with no obstructions or traffic lights or cars, no sidewalk fundraisers or drunks. The fluorescent lights on the walls cast a decent amount of light at our feet, and the ventilation system made the air fresh—or at least less objectionable than the moldy-smelling air below.

			We let a Ginza-bound train go by, and then one headed the other way for Shibuya. We neared Aoyama-itchome Station and observed the situation on the platform from behind a pillar. If a station attendant caught us walking on the tracks, we’d be in real trouble. What kind of excuse could we give for being down there? A ladder was visible on the near end of the platform and a barrier that looked easy to scale. The problem was how to avoid being caught by a station attendant. We watched from the shadows as a Ginza-bound train stopped at the platform, disgorged its passengers, let new ones on, and shut its doors. The conductor stepped onto the platform and checked to see that all passengers had safely alighted and boarded before he closed the doors and signaled for the train to depart. Once the train disappeared, so did all the station attendants. The opposite platform was also free of attendants.

			“Let’s go,” I said. “Don’t run, just casually walk over to the ladder so we don’t arouse suspicion.”

			“Fine,” she said.

			We stepped out from behind our pillar, quickly walked over to the near end of the platform, climbed the steel ladder, and stepped over the wooden barrier, trying to look as if this were a totally unremarkable thing we were used to doing every day. A few passengers cast suspicious glances in our direction. Smeared all over with mud, my pants and her skirt soaking wet, our hair in a wild tangle, our eyes streaming from the glare of the station lights, we were obviously not subway employees. Who could we have been, then, walking as we pleased on the subway tracks like that?

			Before people could arrive at any conclusions they liked, we hurried down the platform to the ticket gate, realizing only then that we had no tickets.

			“We don’t have tickets,” I said to her.

			“Say we lost them and will pay,” she said.

			I tried telling this to the young station attendant at the ticket gate.

			“Did you try hard to find them?” he asked. “Please try looking in all your pockets.”

			We stood there, pretending to go through every fold of our clothing while he eyed us up and down.

			No, I told him, we really didn’t have them.

			“Where did you get on?”

			“Shibuya,” I said, just three stops away.

			“How much did you pay?”

			“I don’t remember,” I said. “A hundred and twenty yen or a hundred and forty yen—something like that.”

			“You don’t remember?”

			“I had something else on my mind,” I said.

			“You really got on from Shibuya?” he asked.

			“Trains that stop at this platform all start at Shibuya, don’t they? We couldn’t possibly cheat on that,” I objected.

			“You could have come from the platform on the other side. The Ginza Line is a long one. Or you could have gotten on the Tozai Line way out in Tsudanuma, for example, and transferred to the Ginza Line at Nihombashi.”

			“Tsudanuma?”

			“Just for example, I’m saying.”

			“Okay, how much is it from Tsudanuma? I’ll pay that much. Would you be okay with that?”

			“Did you come from Tsudanuma?”

			“No, I’ve never been to Tsudanuma in my life.”

			“So why are you willing to pay that much?”

			“Look, you’re the one who started talking about Tsudanuma.”

			“ ‘For example,’ I said!”

			Just then, the next train arrived and some twenty passengers got off, passed through the ticket gate, and went out. I watched them go. Not one of them had lost his ticket. We resumed our negotiations.

			“All right,” I said, “you’ll be happy if I pay from which station?”

			“From the station you got on at,” he said.

			“Which is why I’m telling you Shibuya, right?”

			“But you don’t remember the fare.”

			“Everybody forgets stuff like that,” I said. “You don’t remember the price of coffee at McDonald’s, do you?”

			“I don’t drink McDonald’s coffee,” he said. “It’s a waste of money.”

			“For example, I’m saying,” I said. “Minor details like that, you forget right away.”

			“Anyhow, everybody who loses his ticket reports a lower fare. They all come to this platform and claim they got on at Shibuya. Without exception.”

			“Which is why I’m saying I’ll pay the fare from anywhere. Just tell me how much.”

			“How should I know?”

			Fed up with the endless argument, I laid a thousand-yen bill on the gate and walked out with the girl. We heard the station attendant yelling behind us but just kept walking, pretending not to hear. The world was supposed to be ending any day now, and I was not about to waste any more time haggling over a couple of subway tickets. Come to think of it, we really hadn’t been on the subway at all.

			Aboveground, it was raining. A fine, needlelike rain was soaking the ground and trees. It had probably been falling all night long, and now it was helping to darken my spirits. Today was the last, precious day for me, and I didn’t want it to be a rainy one. I should have a day or two of crisp, clear weather. After that, a huge, J. G. Ballard–style downpour could go on for a month for all I cared. I wanted to sprawl on a sun-drenched lawn, listening to music and drinking cold beer. That would be enough for me.

			Whatever I might have wanted, there was no sign the rain would let up. Vague-colored clouds that looked as if they might have been enclosed in layers of plastic wrap filled every bit of the sky, dropping the fine-grained rain without letup. I wanted to buy a morning paper and read the weather forecast, but for that I would have had to backtrack to the subway ticket gate, which obviously meant I would have had to restart the pointless argument with the station attendant. So I gave up on buying a paper. This was the start of a crummy day, and I still didn’t know what day of the week it was.

			People were walking along with umbrellas up. The two of us were the only ones without umbrellas. We stood for a long time under a building’s overhang, staring blankly at the street scene as if it were the Acropolis in Athens. Colorful lines of cars streamed through the rain-soaked intersection. I could hardly imagine that, far beneath our feet, stretched the bizarre world of the Murks.

			“I’m so glad it’s raining,” the girl said.

			“Why’s that?”

			“Well, if the weather had been good, the light would have been too strong for us and we couldn’t have come up here for a while. It’s a good thing for us, don’t you think?”

			“I suppose so,” I said.

			“What are you going to do now?” she asked.

			“First I’d like a warm drink. Then I’ll go home and take a bath.”

			We went into a nearby supermarket and ordered two bowls of corn soup and a ham-and-egg sandwich at the snack bar near the entrance. The girl behind the counter seemed shocked at first to see the two of us standing there in all our filth, but she pretended not to notice and said with professional detachment, “That’s two cream-of-corn soups and one ham-and-egg sandwich?”

			“Correct,” I said. Then I asked her, “What day is this?”

			“Sunday,” she said.

			“See?” I said to the fat girl. “I was right.”

			Until our order came, I read a Sports Nippon newspaper that someone had left in the next seat. I wasn’t expecting to find anything useful in a sports paper, but it would be better than reading nothing at all. The paper’s date was Sunday, October 2. It had no weather report, but the horseracing page contained plenty of information about the rain conditions. The rain would let up in the evening, but the last race would still have tough conditions on a muddy track. In Jingu Stadium, the last game between the Yakult Swallows and the Chunichi Dragons had ended in a 6–2 loss for Yakult. No one had any idea that the big Murk lair lay directly beneath Jingu Stadium.

			The girl said she wanted to have a look at the page facing her, so I pulled it out and handed it to her. Apparently she wanted to read the article “Does Swallowing Semen Make for Beautiful Skin?” Below that was a story: “Raped in My Cell.”

			“Do you like to have your semen swallowed?” the girl asked me.

			“Not especially,” I answered.

			“But here it says, ‘Men like it when women performing fellatio swallow their semen. This confirms for them that the women have fully accepted them. It is both a ritual and a validation.’ ”

			“I don’t get it,” I said.

			“Have you ever had someone swallow your semen?”

			“I don’t remember. Probably not.”

			“Hmm,” she said, and went on reading the article.

			I read the Central and Pacific Leagues’ batting averages.

			Our soup and sandwich came. I started my soup and split the sandwich between us, enjoying the tastes: toast, ham, egg whites, and egg yolks. I used a paper napkin to wipe away the breadcrumbs and egg yolk that stuck to my mouth. I released a deep sigh that might as well have been all the sighs in my body rolled into one. Sighs that deep don’t happen very often in the course of a lifetime.

			We left the supermarket and caught a cab. Quite some time had to go by before a cab would stop for two such filthy people. The driver was a young man with long hair who was listening to the Police on a large boom box he had perched in the front passenger seat. I yelled to him where we were going and settled deeply into the back seat.

			“Hey, how come you guys are such a mess?” the driver asked into his rearview mirror.

			“We had a big fight in the rain,” the girl answered.

			“Wow, that’s fantastic,” the driver said. “But you really look bad. And you, mister: that’s a hell of a bruise on your neck.”

			“Yeah, I know,” I said.

			“But that’s okay,” the driver said. “I don’t mind stuff like that.”

			“Why not?” the fat girl asked.

			“I only pick up young passengers who look like rock fans. They’re okay with dirt. Listening to this is the only fun I get. You guys like the Police?”

			“Kind of,” I fudged.

			“The company says we can’t play this stuff, just middle-aged pop broadcasts. No way I’m gonna listen to that shit. And I can’t stand Matchy or Seiko Matsuda. The Police are the best. I could listen to them all day. I like reggae, too. How about you?”

			“Reggae’s not bad,” I said. When the Police tape ended, the driver put on a Bob Marley concert. His dashboard was crammed with cassette tapes. Tired and cold and sleepy and aching in every joint, I was in no condition to enjoy music, but I felt grateful for the ride. From the back seat, I half watched the driver’s shoulders bouncing to the reggae rhythm as he gripped the steering wheel.

			When the cab stopped in front of my apartment house, I paid the fare and got out, handing the driver a thousand-yen tip. “Buy yourself a tape or something,” I said.

			“Hey, man, thanks,” he said. “Let’s meet up somewhere.”

			“Sure, sometime,” I said.

			“But really, don’t you think all the taxis’ll be playing rock music in another ten or fifteen years? Wouldn’t that be great?”

			“Yeah, for sure,” I said.

			But I didn’t believe that would happen. More than ten years had passed since Jim Morrison’s death, but I had never heard the Doors playing in a cab. The world had things that changed and things that didn’t change, and the things that didn’t change would never change. Like taxi music. Taxi radios always played middle-aged pop or bad talk shows or baseball games. Department store PA systems piped in the Raymond Lefèvre Orchestra. Beer halls always had polkas, and shopping arcades always played the Ventures’ Christmas carols at year’s end.

			We took the elevator up. My door was still off at the hinges, but somebody had set it into the frame so that, at a glance, it appeared to be properly closed. I had no idea who would have done such a thing, but it must have taken serious time and effort. I pulled the steel door out of the way like a Cro-Magnon man unblocking the mouth of his cave and let her in. From inside, I set the door in place again for cover’s sake and closed the chain for added peace of mind.

			The apartment was so nice and neat that I thought for a moment I might have been mistaken about the other day’s total destruction. The overthrown furniture had all been righted, the food scattered over the floor had been cleaned away, the shattered bottles and dishes had disappeared, the books and records had been returned to the shelves, and the clothes had been hung up in the wardrobe. The kitchen and bathroom and bedroom were sparkling clean, and there was no hint of dirt on the floor.

			On closer inspection, though, scars of destruction were still there. The TV gaped like a time tunnel where the picture tube had been smashed in, the refrigerator was dead and empty, and the slashed clothing had all been thrown away, leaving only a tiny suitcase’s worth of wearables. A few dishes and glasses were all that remained in the cupboard. The wall clock had stopped, and none of the electrical appliances was working properly. Somebody had apparently gotten rid of the unusable items, thanks to which my apartment looked unusually neat and clean, free of superfluous items and much roomier than before. Some necessities were probably missing, but who could say what was “necessary” for me now?

			I went into the bathroom, where I found the instant water heater still working, so I started the bathwater running. A decent supply of soap, shaving equipment, toothbrushes, towels, and shampoo were still there, and the shower was all right. Even my bathrobe was undisturbed. All kinds of things must have disappeared from the bathroom, but I couldn’t think of anything that might be missing.

			While I was filling the bathtub and checking over the apartment, the fat girl lay on the bed, reading Balzac’s The Peasantry.

			“So, I guess they had otters in France,” she said.

			“I guess so,” I said.

			“Do you think they still have them?”

			“I don’t know,” I answered. How could I know such a thing?

			I sat on a chair in the kitchen, wondering who could have straightened up the junk heap that was my apartment. Somebody, for some reason, had taken the time and trouble to clean and straighten every inch of the place. It could have been the Semiotec pair or people from the System. I couldn’t begin to imagine what basis they had for doing what they did and thinking what they thought. In any case, I felt gratitude toward these enigmatic people for having cleaned up my place. It felt really good to come home to a clean house.

			When the bath was full, I urged the girl to use it first. She marked her place in the book, got out of bed, and slipped out of her clothes in the kitchen. She undressed with such natural ease, I just sat on the bed, blankly watching her get naked. She had an odd build, both childish and grown-up, with lots of soft-looking white flesh attached as if someone had smeared gelatin all over a normal human body. Her fat was so evenly distributed that, if you weren’t paying attention, you might miss the fact that she was fat. Her arms and thighs and neck and belly were beautifully filled out and smooth as a whale. Her breasts were not very big in proportion to the rest of her, but they were nicely shaped, and her buttocks were firm and high.

			“Not bad, don’t you think?” she said to me from the kitchen.

			“Not bad at all,” I replied.

			“It was hard work putting on this much weight. I had to eat a lot—cake and fried foods and stuff.”

			I nodded silently.

			While she was in the tub, I changed out of my shirt and wet pants and into some of my leftover clothing, then stretched out on the bed to think about what I would be doing from that point on. It was almost eleven thirty. I had a little more than twenty-four hours left. I had to decide what to do. I couldn’t just fritter away the last twenty-four hours of my life.

			It was still raining outside, a fine, quiet, nearly invisible mist. If I hadn’t been able to see the droplets creeping along and falling from the edge of the eaves above the window, I wouldn’t have known it was raining. Every once in a while, I heard a car splashing its way through the thin film of water on the road below. I could also hear children calling out. I couldn’t quite catch the melody of the song the girl was singing in the bathroom. She was probably making it up.

			Lying on the bed, I started to feel tremendously sleepy, but I couldn’t just let myself go unconscious. If I fell asleep, hours could go by while I did nothing.

			But when I made myself think about what I would do not sleeping, nothing came to mind. I pulled off the rubber cover attached to the edge of the shade on the floor lamp next to the bed, played with it a while, and put it back. No matter what, I couldn’t stay in this apartment. There was nothing to be gained from just sitting still in here. I would probably have to go out and do something. As for what I could do, well, I could think about that after I went out.

			It was strange to think I had only twenty-four hours left to live. I should have had a million things to do, but I really couldn’t think of one. I pulled the rubber off the lampshade again and rolled it between my fingers. Then I thought about the Frankfurt travel poster on the supermarket wall—the one with the bridge over the river and white swans floating on the water. Frankfurt looked like a nice enough town. To go and end my life there seemed like a good idea. But I probably couldn’t get there in twenty-four hours, and even if I could, spending ten or fifteen hours strapped in an airplane seat and eating ghastly airplane food was out of the question. Besides, I could get there only to find that the scenery in the poster was way better than the real thing. If possible, I wanted to avoid ending my life in disappointment, which meant I’d better exclude travel from my plans. Moving from one place to another took up too much time, and the real thing never lived up to one’s initial expectations.

			All I could think of, finally, was having a nice meal and drink with a girl. There was nothing else I wanted to do. I looked through my memo book for the library’s telephone number, dialed it, and asked for the reference librarian.

			“Thanks for the unicorn books the other day,” I said when she came on the line.

			“No, I should thank you for the delicious meal,” she said.

			“How would you like to share another meal with me tonight?”

			“Another meal,” she said. “My study group meets tonight.”

			“Study group?”

			“On river pollution. You know, how detergents are getting into the water and killing the fish. Stuff like that. Tonight’s my turn to present my research.”

			“Sounds like a useful study,” I said.

			“Yes, it is. Could we do the dinner tomorrow night? It’ll be Monday, when the library’s closed. We can take all the time we want.”

			“I won’t be here anymore after noon tomorrow. I can’t explain it over the phone, but I’ll be going far away for a while.”

			“Going far away? Like on a trip?” she asked.

			“Something like that,” I said.

			“Sorry, could you wait a minute?” she said.

			It seemed she was helping a library patron with a reference problem. Sunday library sounds came through the receiver—a little girl talking at the top of her voice, her father telling her to quiet down, a computer keyboard clacking. The world was moving along as normal: people borrowing library books, station attendants on the lookout for fare cheats, racehorses galloping in the rain.

			“We have three volumes on the relocation and reconstruction of traditional Japanese country houses,” I could hear her telling the library patron. “Please check shelf F-5.”

			I heard the voice of someone thanking her.

			“Sorry about that,” she said, picking up the phone again. “Okay, let’s do it. I’ll pass on the study group. I’m gonna hear it from everybody, though.”

			“Now it’s my turn to be sorry.”

			“Never mind,” she said. “There’s probably not a single fish left alive in the river here anyway. I can do my report next week, it won’t hurt anybody.”

			“That’s probably true,” I said.

			“Eat at your place?”

			“No, my apartment’s not usable anymore. The refrigerator’s dead, and most of my dishes are gone. I can’t cook.”

			“I know,” she said.

			“You know?”

			“Yes, but you found everything neat and clean, didn’t you?”

			“You’re the one who straightened up?”

			“I’m the one! Shouldn’t I have done it? I stopped by there this morning on the way to work to bring you another book. The door was off the hinges, and the place was such a mess, I cleaned up. Made me a little late for work, but I figured I owed you for the nice meal you fed me. Should I have left it alone?”

			“No, not at all! I’m very grateful.”

			“Okay, then, can you pick me up in front of the library at ten after six? We close at six on Sundays.”

			“Fine,” I said. “Thanks a lot.”

			“You’re welcome,” she said, and hung up.

			I was looking for clothes to wear to dinner when the fat girl came out of the bathroom. I handed her a towel and bathrobe. Holding them, she stood before me for a while, naked, her washed hair plastered to her forehead and cheeks, her pointed ears showing through the hair, her golden earrings in place.

			“Do you always leave your earrings on in the bath?” I asked.

			“Yes, of course, I told you that,” she said. “No problem, they can’t fall off. Do you like them?”

			“They’re nice,” I said.



* * *



			—

			In the bathroom, she had hung out her underwear, skirt, and blouse to dry—pink brassiere, pink panties, pink skirt, and pale-pink blouse. Just looking at them while I soaked in the tub, I felt my temples throb with pain. I had never liked having underwear or stockings and things hung up in my bathroom. I would have been hard-pressed to explain why, but I just didn’t like it.

			I quickly shampooed, washed off, brushed my teeth, and shaved. Emerging from the bathroom, I toweled myself down, and put on my underpants and trousers. My belly cut hurt much less than it had the day before in spite of all the crazy running around I had done. I had even forgotten about it until I climbed into the tub. The fat girl sat on the bed, using the hair dryer while she continued with Balzac. The rain outside showed no sign of letting up. What with the underwear hanging in my bathroom, the girl drying her hair and reading on my bed, and the rain falling outside, I felt as if I had gone back several years to the married life I had been living.

			“Want to use the dryer?” she asked.

			“No, thanks,” I said. My wife had left the dryer behind when we separated. With my short hair, I didn’t need it.

			I sat next to her, resting my head on the headboard, and closed my eyes. Colors came and went in the darkness behind my eyelids. Come to think of it, I hadn’t had any decent sleep for days. Someone had come and roused me whenever I was on the verge of falling asleep. With my eyes closed, I felt sleep trying to drag me into a deep, dark world, as if the Murks were pulling me down.

			I opened my eyes and rubbed my face with both hands. Having washed my face and shaved for the first time in quite a while, I found the skin of my face tight like a dried drumskin. I felt as if I were rubbing the face of a stranger. The spots where the leeches had sucked my blood were stinging. The creatures must have sucked a lot of blood.

			“You know,” the girl said, setting the book aside, “are you sure you wouldn’t like to have your semen swallowed?”

			“Not right now,” I said.

			“You’re not in the mood?”

			“That’s right.”

			“And you don’t want to sleep with me?”

			“Not right now.”

			“Because I’m too fat for you?”

			“Not at all,” I said. “You’ve got a lovely body.”

			“So why won’t you sleep with me?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. “I just feel I shouldn’t sleep with you now, I’m not sure why.”

			“Do you have some moral objection? Or it’s against your life ethics?”

			“Life ethics,” I said, echoing her words. They sounded very strange to me. I stared at the ceiling, thinking about them a bit.

			“No, nothing like that,” I said. “It’s something else, call it instinct or intuition or something close to that. Or maybe it has something to do with memories that come flooding back to me. I can’t explain it very well. I myself very much want to sleep with you now, but that something is stopping me. It’s telling me that now is just not the time.”

			She rested her elbow on my pillow and stared at me hard.

			“You’re not lying to me?”

			“I don’t lie about stuff like this.”

			“It’s what you really think?”

			“It’s what I really feel.”

			“Can you prove it?”

			“Prove it?” I shot back in surprise.

			“That you want to sleep with me—something that’ll convince me.”

			“I’ve got an erection.”

			“Show me,” she said.

			I hesitated a moment but decided to pull my pants down and show her. I was too tired to keep this debate going. And besides, I wasn’t going to be in this world much longer. I couldn’t believe that showing my healthy erect penis to a seventeen-year-old girl would develop into a major social problem.

			“Hmm,” she said with her eyes on my swollen penis. “Can I touch it?”

			“No way,” I said. “But is this proof enough?”

			“I guess so, sure.”

			I pulled my pants up and put my penis back inside. Just then I heard a big truck moving slowly past beneath the window.

			“When are you going back to your grandfather’s?” I asked.

			“After I nap a little and my wash dries,” she said. “The water down there should recede by evening, and I’ll go back through the subway.”

			“It’ll be tomorrow morning before laundry dries in this weather.”

			“You think so?” she said. “What should I do?”

			“There’s a laundromat near here. You can dry your clothes there.”

			“But what do I wear to the laundromat?”

			I racked my brains but couldn’t come up with anything at first. Then it occurred to me I’d have to take her clothes to the laundromat and throw them in a dryer. I went to the bathroom and stuffed her wet clothes into a vinyl Lufthansa bag. Then I put on a pair of olive-green chinos and a blue button-down shirt from among my remaining clothes. For shoes I chose a pair of brown loafers. In this way, a certain fraction of the precious time left to me was evaporating meaninglessly while I sat on a crummy tube chair in a laundromat. The clock showed 12:17 p.m.





32


			End of the World


			Dying Shadow


			Gatekeeper was splitting firewood when I opened the gatehouse door.

			“Looks like we’re going to get some major snow if this keeps up,” he said with the axe in his hand. “Four beasts died this morning. Tomorrow’ll be even worse. This winter’s cold is something special.”

			I pulled my gloves off and went over to the stove, warming my fingers. Gatekeeper bundled the newly split kindling together, and after throwing it into the storehouse, he closed the back door and returned his axe to its place on the wall. Then he joined me in warming his hands over the stove.

			“Looks like I’ll be burning beast carcasses alone for a while. Having your guy’s help has made my work a lot easier, but what the hell, it was my job to begin with.”

			“Is my shadow in very bad shape?”

			“Not good,” Gatekeeper said, shaking his head from side to side. “No, not good at all. He’s been in bed three straight days. I’m doing my best to take care of him, but when your time comes, that’s it, I suppose, and there’s only so much a person can do.”

			“Can I see him?”

			“Sure, of course you can. But keep it short—thirty minutes. I have to go burn beasts after that.”

			I nodded.

			Gatekeeper took his bunch of keys down from the wall and opened the iron gate to Shadow Square. With quick steps, he led me across the square, opened my shadow’s shelter, and let me in. The little house was an open, empty space devoid of furniture, the floor a cold stretch of bricks. A chill wind was blowing in through the cracks around the window, the air inside on the verge of freezing. It might as well have been an icehouse.

			“This isn’t my fault,” Gatekeeper said defensively. “It wasn’t my choice to force your shadow into this place. It’s the rule to have them live here: I’m just following the rule. And your shadow is better off than most. Two or three of them at a time have been crammed together in here in the worst case.”

			It would have been pointless to object. I just nodded in silence. No, I should never have left him here.

			“Your shadow’s downstairs,” he said. “Come on. You’ll find it’s a little warmer down there. The smell’s not so good, though.”

			Gatekeeper walked over to a corner of the room and pulled open a black, damp-looking door, behind which was a ladder rather than a stairway. He climbed down the first few rungs and motioned for me to join him. I brushed the snow from my coat and followed him down.

			The first thing to strike me in the basement was the stifling smell of excrement. The room had no windows. The air was closed in with no escape. It was like a small storage room, a third of which was taken up by a bed. My shadow lay there facing us, looking emaciated. Beneath the bed I could see a ceramic chamber pot. Atop a rickety old table burned an old candle, the only visible source of light and heat in the room. The floor was bare earth, the cold air penetrating. My shadow had his blanket pulled up to his ears. He looked up at me with lifeless eyes, unmoving. As the old Colonel had said, he did not appear to have much time left.

			“I’ll be leaving,” Gatekeeper said, as if unable to bear the stench. “You two can talk about anything you want to. Your shadow doesn’t have enough strength left to stick to you.”

			Once Gatekeeper disappeared, my shadow waited a few moments to be sure he was gone, then motioned for me to approach him.

			“I hate to ask you this,” he whispered, “but could you check to see he’s not up there listening to us?”

			I nodded and crept up a few rungs, opened the door to make sure there was no one up there, and came back down to his bedside.

			“Nobody’s there,” I said.

			“Good, I’ve got something to tell you,” he said. “I’m not as bad off as I look. I’ve been putting on a show for Gatekeeper. It’s true that I’ve lost a lot of strength, but I’ve been vomiting and staying in bed to fool him. I can stand and walk just fine.”

			“So you can escape?”

			“Of course. Otherwise, I wouldn’t have gone to all this trouble. I’ve earned myself three days to spare. I’m getting out of here in the next three days. After that, I probably will be too weak to stand. The air down here is doing terrible things to me. The cold is so deep, it’s affecting my bones. But tell me, what’s the weather like outside?”

			“It’s snowing,” I said with hands thrust in my coat pockets. “And it’s supposed to get worse tonight. It’s going to freeze.”

			“The more it snows, the more beasts die,” my shadow said. “And the more beasts die, the more work it is for Gatekeeper. That’s when you and I slip out of here, while he’s burning beasts in Apple Wood. You grab his keys off the wall, unlock the iron gate, and we get out of here.”

			“Through the western gate?”

			“No, that one’s locked from the outside, and even if we managed to get out that way, Gatekeeper would catch us in no time. And we can’t go over the wall. Only birds can do that.”

			“So where do we escape from?”

			“Just leave it to me. I’ve got it all worked out. I know everything there is to know about the town, I’ve studied that map of yours till I could see through it, and Gatekeeper himself has told me plenty, too. He’s so convinced I’d never try escaping, he’s shared all kinds of things with me about the town. And you distracted him, too. True, it’s taken me a lot longer than I expected, but my plan is working perfectly. He’s right, I don’t have enough strength left to stick to you, but I’ll recover if we can get out of here and be together again. Then I won’t have to die in this place, and you can get your memories back. You can be your old self again.”

			I stared at the candle flame, saying nothing.

			“What’s wrong?” my shadow asked.

			“What was my old self, I wonder?”

			“Hey, cut that out. Don’t tell me you’re having second thoughts about this,” my shadow said.

			“I am,” I said. “Real second thoughts. I can’t remember what I used to be like. Was I in a world worth going back to? Did I have a self worth getting back to?”

			My shadow started to say something, but I raised my hand and stopped him.

			“Wait a minute. Let me finish. I don’t remember my old self, but my present self is starting to feel a kind of attachment to this town. I’m drawn to the girl I met in the library, and the Colonel is a good man. I enjoy watching the beasts. The winters are harsh, but the views can be beautiful in the other seasons. People here don’t fight and wound each other. Life in this town is simple but fulfilling in its own way, and everyone is equal. People don’t say nasty things or steal each other’s possessions. Everybody works hard, but they enjoy their work. And it’s pure: work for the sake of working, not something you hate because you’ve been forced to do it. Nobody envies anyone else or bemoans his fate or agonizes over anything.”

			“No money, no property, no social status,” added my shadow. “No litigation, no hospitals, either. No aging, no fear of death. You could have added those, right?”

			I nodded. “What’s your view of the situation? What possible reason could there be for my having to leave this town?”

			“Good question,” my shadow said, reaching from under his blanket and rubbing his parched lips. “What you say makes sense in a way. A world like that would be a true utopia. I don’t have any reason to oppose it. You should do as you like. I’ll accept it and die here. But you’re overlooking a few things—some very important things.”

			He started coughing at that point. I waited for the fit to subside.

			“Last time we met,” he said, “I told you this town was unnatural and wrong—and perfect in its very unnaturalness and wrongness. Just now you were talking about what makes it so complete and perfect. Now let me tell you what makes it unnatural and wrong. So, listen closely. First of all—and this is the central proposition—perfection doesn’t exist in this world.

			As I said before, it’s the same as a perpetual-motion machine, which can’t theoretically exist. Entropy is always increasing. Where could this town be discharging its entropy? True, the people here—with the exception of Gatekeeper—don’t hurt or hate each other or have desires. All of them are contented and live in peace. And why do you think that is? It’s because they have no hearts to think and feel with.”

			“Yes, I know that much,” I said.

			“The town achieves its perfection by getting rid of the heart. By doing away with the organ of thought and feeling, it embeds all beings into an eternally expanded time. That’s why no one ages or dies. First it strips away the shadow—the matrix of the self—and waits for it to die. Once the shadow is dead and gone, the town has no great difficulty. All it has to do is skim off the tiny flecks of foam that hearts produce each day.”

			“Skim off?”

			“Let’s talk about that a little later. First comes the problem of the heart. You said to me this town has no fighting or hatred or desire. Which is fine as far as it goes. I’d applaud for it myself if I had the strength. But the absence of fighting and hatred and desire means the opposites don’t exist, either: joy and bliss and love. Joy only arises because despair, disillusionment, and sorrow exist. Nowhere is there bliss without an element of despair. That’s what I call natural. And then there’s love, of course. It’s the same with the one you call your library girl. You may well be in love with her, but that feeling leads nowhere because she has no heart. A person without a heart is nothing but a walking phantom. What can it mean to possess someone like that? Do you want that kind of eternal life? Do you yourself want to be a phantom like that? If I die here, you’ll just become one of them and be trapped in this town forever.”

			A cold, stifling silence enveloped the basement for a time. My shadow coughed again.

			“But I can’t leave her here,” I said. “Whatever she may be, I love her, and I want her. I can’t deceive my own heart. If I run away now, I’m bound to regret it. Once I leave here, I can never come back.”

			“Oh, great,” my shadow said, sitting up in bed and leaning against the wall. “I see it’s going to be hard to convince you. We go way back, so I knew how stubborn you could be, but here we are at the last possible minute and you’re raising tough new questions. What do you want to do, finally? If you want the three of us—you, me, and the girl—to escape from here, that’s not going to work. People without shadows can’t live on the outside.”

			“Of course, I know that,” I said. “What I’m saying is, why don’t you escape alone? I can help you.”

			“You still don’t get it, do you?” my shadow said, resting his head against the wall. “If you stay here without me, you’ll be in a hopeless situation. That’s what Gatekeeper told me. All shadows die here. Even ones who have been let out come back here to die. And those who die elsewhere only leave behind an imperfect death. In other words, you have to live forever holding on to your heart. And that has to be in the Forest. The Forest is where people live who couldn’t effectively kill off their shadows. You’d be driven into the Forest to wander around there forever with your thoughts. You know about the Forest, don’t you?”

			I nodded to him.

			“But you couldn’t take her in there, because she’s perfect. Meaning, she has no heart. Perfect humans live in the town. They can’t live in the Forest. So you’d be all alone, which means there’d be no point in your staying here, don’t you see?”

			“Where do people’s hearts go?” I asked.

			“Wait, you’re the Dreamreader, aren’t you?” my shadow said in apparent astonishment. “How can you not know the answer to that?”

			“I just don’t,” I said.

			“All right, then, let me tell you. People’s hearts are carried outside the wall by the beasts. That’s what is meant by ‘skimming off.’ The beasts absorb and collect people’s hearts and carry them to the outside world. Then, when winter comes, they die with all those selves stored up inside them. What kills the beasts is not the winter’s cold nor a shortage of food. What kills them is the weight of the selves the town has forced them to carry. New beasts are born when spring comes. The number of young born is exactly the same as the number of beasts that have died. The young then mature and die the same way, burdened by the selves they have skimmed off. That is the price of perfection. What could be the meaning of such perfection—a perfection that is preserved by foisting everything off on the weak and powerless?”

			I stared down at my shoes, saying nothing.

			“When the beasts die, Gatekeeper cuts their heads off,” my shadow continued, “because by then their skulls have been engraved with all those selves. He cleans them off and buries them in the ground for a year until their energy dies down, then carries them to the library stacks, where the Dreamreader’s hands release the engraved selves into the air. The role of Dreamreader is assigned to people like you—newcomers to the town whose shadows haven’t died yet. The selves read by the Dreamreader are sucked into the air and dissipated. Those are the ‘old dreams.’ Finally, your function is like that of an electrical ground. Is my meaning clear to you?”

			“Yes, it is,” I said.

			“When his shadow dies, the Dreamreader stops reading dreams and is fully assimilated into the town. That’s how the town keeps its circle of perfection eternally spinning. It foists its imperfections off on imperfect beings and lives on nothing more than the clear top layer it imbibes. Do you think that’s right and proper? Is that a true world? Is that the image of how things should be? Listen to me: you have to look at things from the point of view of the weak and imperfect—the beasts and the shadows and Forest people.”

			I stared hard at the candle flame until my eyes began to hurt. Then I took off my glasses and wiped away my tears with the back of my hand.

			“I’ll come for you at three o’clock tomorrow,” I said. “You’re right, I don’t belong here.”





33


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Rainy-Day Laundry, Rental Car, Bob Dylan


			All four dryers were taken that rainy Sunday at the laundromat. Each had a colorful shopping bag or vinyl sack hanging from its handle. Three women were the customers using the machines, one a housewife in her late thirties, the other two most likely girls from the nearby women’s college dorm. The housewife just sat on a tube chair, staring at the laundry tumbling in her machine as if she were watching television. The college girls sat side by side, turning the pages of JJ. They glanced at me when I first came in, but soon returned their gazes to their laundry and magazine.

			Setting my Lufthansa bag on my lap, I took a seat and waited my turn. Neither of the college girls was holding a bundle, which told me their laundry was in the dryers. This meant I must be next in line when one of the four machines became free. I was relieved to think it would not be much longer now. The thought of wasting close to an hour in a place like this watching laundry tumble could only get me down. I now had less than twenty-four hours left.

			Sitting in my chair, I relaxed every muscle in my body and stared off at a point in space. The air around me had that strange laundromat smell, a mixture of drying clothes and laundry detergent. The coeds next to me were talking about sweater patterns. Neither girl was particularly attractive. Smart girls didn’t spend their Sunday afternoons reading magazines in a laundromat.

			Contrary to my expectations, none of the dryers stopped running. “The watched dryer never stops” is one of the laws governing laundromats. All the laundry looked bone dry from the outside, but the drums wouldn’t stop turning.

			I went on waiting like this for fifteen minutes, during which time a slim, well-dressed young woman came in with a large paper bag and dumped a load of diapers into one of the washers. She tore open a packet of detergent, sprinkled the powder over the diapers, closed the lid, and dropped coins into the machine.

			I was dying to close my eyes and go to sleep, but that was out of the question in case a dryer stopped and someone who came in after me put her laundry in. That would only waste more of my time.

			I was sorry I hadn’t brought a magazine to read. That would have kept me awake and made the time pass more quickly. I wasn’t sure, though, if making the time pass more quickly was the right thing for me to do. Maybe in my current situation I should have been trying to make time pass more slowly. But what would be the point, then, of slowly passing time in this laundromat? Wouldn’t I just be expanding the consumption of my time?

			Thinking about time like this was giving me a headache. Time was too abstract a concept. Still, when we fit one physical entity after another into a temporal framework, we soon lose track of whether the things derived from that process are attributes of time or of the physical entities themselves.

			I decided to stop thinking about time and instead think about what I would do after leaving the laundromat. First, I had to buy clothes. Decent clothes. There was no time to alter the trousers, so making the dark-blue tweed suit I had decided on underground was an impossibility. Regretfully, I had to give up on that idea. I’d make do with the chinos I was wearing and buy a blazer, shirt, and tie. And a raincoat. I could go into any restaurant wearing those. I probably needed an hour and a half to put my outfit together. My shopping would be done by about three, which would leave a three-hour blank until I was supposed to pick her up.

			I tried thinking about how best to use the three hours, but nothing good came to mind. Fatigue and sleepiness were getting in the way—and doing so in a far deeper place than I could reach.

			While I went on trying to unravel my thoughts bit by bit, the far-right dryer’s drum stopped turning. I checked to make sure it was not an optical illusion and then looked around the laundromat. The housewife and coeds glanced at the dryer but none of them made a move to leave their chairs. In accordance with another law of the laundromats, I opened the dryer door, stuffed the warm laundry lying in the bottom of the drum into the shopping bag hanging on the handle, and loaded in the contents of my flight bag. Then I closed the door, dropped the coins in, and went back to my chair after checking to see the drum had started turning. Twelve fifty, the clock said.

			The housewife and coeds behind me kept track of my every move. Then they glanced at the dryer into which I had put my laundry and finally at me. I, too, looked up at the drum rotating with my laundry in it. The fundamental problem was that I had put far too few items into the dryer, that they were all women’s clothes and underwear, and all pink—guaranteed to attract too much attention. This was more than I could take. I decided to hang my vinyl bag on the dryer handle and kill twenty minutes somewhere else.

			On and on the fine rain kept falling in exactly the same way it had in the morning, as if to suggest to the world that some kind of situation would be continuing. I walked around the streets with my umbrella up. Cutting through a quiet residential neighborhood, I came to a street lined with all kinds of shops—a barbershop, a bakery, a surf shop (why there should be a surf shop in the landlocked Setagaya district was beyond me), a tobacco stand, a sweet shop, a video-rental shop, a laundry. The laundry had a sign out front: “10% discount on rainy day carry-in orders.” I couldn’t figure out why laundry should be cheaper on rainy days. Inside, the bald proprietor was ironing a shirt with a stern look on his face. Several irons were hooked up, each with a cord hanging from the ceiling like a thick vine. This was an old-fashioned laundry where the owner ironed the shirts himself. I found myself liking him. A laundry of this type probably didn’t staple identification tags to the shirttails. I never sent my shirts to the cleaner’s because I hated when they did that.

			Also in front of the laundry was a kind of bench with several potted plants lined up on it. I looked at them for a while, but I couldn’t think of the name of a single flower growing there. I didn’t know why I was so ignorant of flower names. I knew at a glance that the ones in these pots were the most ordinary flowers imaginable, flowers that any normal person would know without exception. Rain dripping from the eaves struck the black earth in each of the pots. The more I watched this happening, the more bereft I felt. I had been living in this world for thirty-five years but didn’t know the name of a single ordinary flower.

			In just this one laundry, I made several discoveries. That I was ignorant of flower names was one of them, and that laundry could be cheaper on rainy days was another. And though I had walked down this street practically every day, I had never even noticed that there was a bench in front of the laundry.

			A snail was crawling on the bench, which was another discovery for me. Up to now I had been certain that snails were present only during the spring rainy season. Come to think of it, though, if snails came out only during the rainy season, where were they and what were they doing during the other seasons?

			I put this October snail into one of the pots and then set it on a green leaf. The snail swayed atop the leaf at first, settled down at an incline and intently took stock of its surroundings.

			I walked back to the tobacco stand and bought a pack of king-size Larks and a cigarette lighter. I had stopped smoking five years earlier, but even if I smoked a whole pack on the last day of my life, it shouldn’t do that much damage. Standing beneath the tobacco stand’s eaves, I put a Lark between my lips and lit up with the lighter. After such a long lapse, the cigarette felt stranger in my mouth than I had imagined it would. I inhaled slowly and exhaled just as slowly. My fingertips tingled slightly, and my head clouded over.

			I moved on to the sweet shop and bought four pastries. They all had long French names, which I forgot as soon as they were boxed up for me. I had forgotten all my French the day I graduated from college. The girl behind the counter was as tall as a fir tree and very bad at tying the string on the package. I had never once come across a tall girl with nimble fingers. Of course I didn’t know if this was a widely accepted theory or just a product of the chance encounters in my own particular life.

			The video shop next door was one I patronized now and then. The couple who owned the place were about my age, and the wife was very attractive. Walter Hill’s Hard Times was showing on the twenty-seven-inch monitor by the door. It starred Charles Bronson as a bare-knuckle boxer and James Coburn as his manager. I decided to go inside, take a seat on the shop’s sofa, and kill time by having them show me the big fight scene.

			Sitting behind the back counter, the wife looked bored alone. I offered her one of my pastries. She chose a pear tart and I chose an unbaked cheesecake. While eating it, I watched the scene in which Charles Bronson fights a big, bald man. Most of the audience expected the big man to win, but having seen the film several years before, I was sure it would be Charles Bronson. When I finished my pastry, I lit another cigarette and had smoked it halfway down by the time I confirmed Bronson’s total knockout of the other man and got up from the sofa.

			“You could watch a little more,” the wife said to me.

			I told her I’d love to but I had left my clothes drying in the laundromat. I glanced at my watch to find it was already 1:25. The dryer had stopped long before.

			“Oh, boy,” I said.

			“Don’t worry, somebody will take it out and put it in your bag. They’re not going to steal your underwear.”

			“I suppose not,” I said weakly.

			“We’ll be getting three Hitchcock classics next week,” she said.



* * *



			—

			I left the video shop and walked down the street to the laundromat. There was no one inside, thankfully, and the clothes I had put in were patiently waiting for me in the bottom of the dryer drum. Only one of the four dryers was now running. I stuffed the dry clothing into my bag and went back to my apartment.

			The fat girl was sleeping soundly in my bed—so soundly that at first glance I wondered if she might be dead, but I leaned my ear down near her and heard her faint breathing. I took her dried clothes out of the bag and placed them next to her pillow, setting the pastry box by the lamp on the night table. I badly wanted to crawl in next to her and fall asleep, but that was out of the question.

			I went into the kitchen and drank a glass of water, which reminded me to go for a pee. Then I sat on a kitchen chair, taking in the scene. Water spigot, instant gas water heater, exhaust fan, gas oven, pots of all sizes, kettle, refrigerator, toaster, cabinets, carving-knife rack, large Brooke Bond tea canister, electric rice cooker, coffee maker: all were nicely arranged where they belonged. A “kitchen” was far more than a room: it consisted of all kinds of objects and large and small appliances. Viewing the scene with a new awareness, I could sense a strangely complex silence possessed by the order that composed the world.

			I had still had a wife when I moved into this apartment eight full years earlier, but even then I had often sat at this table alone in the middle of the night, reading a book. She, too, had been such a quiet sleeper that I would worry at times she might be dead in the bed. I had loved her in my own imperfect way.

			Yes, I had lived in this apartment for eight long years. Back then it had been the three of us: me, my wife, and the cat. My wife had been the first to leave, and then the cat. Now I was getting ready to go. I smoked a cigarette, using an old coffee cup that had lost its saucer as an ashtray. Then I took another drink of water. Why had I lived in a place like this for eight years? I wondered. I didn’t especially like it, and the rent was by no means cheap. It caught too much of the western sun, and the building’s manager was a sourpuss. Living here had not brightened my life in any way: the population decrease had been too extreme.

			Oh, well, it didn’t matter anymore. Everything was coming to an end.

			Eternal life—I let myself think. Immortality.

			The Doctor had said I would be going to an immortal world. The end of this world was not death, he said, but a switch to someplace new, where I would become myself and I could reencounter what I had already lost and what I was losing now.

			But not a word of his had appealed to me. It was all too vague and abstract. I didn’t need to “become” myself: I was myself enough already, I felt. And what did an immortal human being think about his own immortality? This was a question that far exceeded the narrow limits of my imagination—all the more so when it involved unicorns and high walls. Even The Wizard of Oz seemed somewhat more realistic than that.

			In fact, what had I lost? I wondered, scratching my head. True, I had lost a lot of things, maybe enough to fill a college notebook if I listed them in detail. There were things I didn’t mind losing at the time but felt bad about later, and things that were just the opposite. I seemed to have gone on losing things and people and emotions. I was like a coat with a massive hole in the pocket that no needle and thread could sew up. If somebody stuck his head in my window and yelled “Your life is a zero!” I didn’t have anything to prove him wrong.

			Even if I could live my life over again, though, I was sure I would live it the same way, because, finally, this life of constantly losing things was me. There was no way for me to become anyone other than myself. However many people cast me off, however many people I cast off, however many beautiful emotions or outstanding talents or dreams might be obliterated or restricted in my life, I could not become anything other than me myself.

			I used to think, when I was much younger, that I might be able to become someone other than myself, that it was not entirely impossible for me to open a bar in Casablanca and get to know Ingrid Bergman. Or, more realistically—whether it was actually realistic or not—I used to think it might be possible for me to take hold of a worthwhile life well suited to my own individuality. I even embarked on a period of discipline for the purpose of transforming myself to that end. I read The Greening of America, and I saw Easy Rider three times. But like a boat with a bent rudder, I kept coming back to the same place—to me myself, and that self wasn’t going anywhere. I myself was always right there, waiting for me to return.

			Did people have to call this despair?

			I didn’t know for sure. It might well have been despair. A Turgenev might call it disillusionment. A Dostoevsky might call it Hell. A Somerset Maugham might call it reality. Whatever others might call it, it was me myself.

			I couldn’t imagine an immortal world. I might well be able to retrieve what I had lost and establish a new self there. Some might applaud me; some might celebrate me. And I might become happy and obtain a worthwhile life well suited to my individuality. Whatever this new self might be, however, it would be a different self that had nothing to do with the present me. The present me had a solid grip on me myself. That was an unbudgeable, historical fact.

			At the end of all this thinking, I reached the conclusion that it probably made the most sense for me to suppose that, in another twenty-two-plus hours, I was going to die. This “transitioning to an immortal world” stuff was as hard to swallow as The Teachings of Don Juan.

			I was going to die. I decided to think of it that way for convenience’s sake. That was much more like me—and somewhat more comforting.

			I stubbed out my cigarette and went into the bedroom. After watching the girl sleeping for a while, I checked to be sure that everything I needed was in my trouser pockets. Come to think of it, though, I now “needed” almost nothing. What did I “need” besides my wallet and credit cards? I couldn’t use my apartment key anymore and had no need for my Calcutec license or my memo book. I had abandoned my car, so the keys were of no use to me. My knife and my pocket change were no longer necessary. I took all the coins from my pocket and spread them on the table.

			First, I took the subway to the Ginza and bought a shirt and tie and a blazer at Paul Stuart, using my American Express card. I stood in front of a mirror with everything on. Not bad. True, the creases on my olive-green chinos were beginning to lose their sharpness, but nothing’s perfect. The combination of the navy-blue flannel blazer and the burnt-orange shirt impressed me as something an up-and-coming young ad executive might wear, but I definitely did not look like someone who had just come from crawling around underground and was going to vanish from this world in another twenty-one hours.

			Standing up straight in front of the mirror, I noticed that the blazer’s left sleeve was a centimeter and a half shorter than the right. Strictly speaking, it was not the sleeve that was too short but my arm that was too long. How could that have come about? I was right-handed, and I had no recollection of having abused my left arm with overuse. The clerk said they could alter it in two days, but I turned down his offer, of course.

			“Tell me, sir, would you by any chance be a baseball player?” he asked as he handed me my credit card receipt.

			“No way,” I said.

			“Most sports make the body lopsided,” he informed me. “The best way to assure your clothing fits properly is to avoid excessive exercise and excessive eating and drinking.”

			I thanked him and left the store. The world was full of rules, it seemed. There were literally new discoveries to be made with every step I took.

			It was still raining, but I was tired of shopping for clothes, so instead of buying a raincoat I went into a beer hall and had a draft beer with oysters on the half shell. They had a Bruckner symphony playing for some reason. I didn’t know which symphony it was, but nobody knows the numbers of Bruckner symphonies. This was the first time I had ever heard a Bruckner symphony playing in a beer hall.

			There were only three customers besides me: a little old man in a hat and a young couple. Never removing his hat, the old man drank his beer a sip at a time. The couple hardly touched their beer but spent their time discussing something in hushed tones. Beer halls were like that on rainy afternoons.

			Listening to the Bruckner, I drizzled lemon juice on my five oysters and ate them in clockwise order, draining my midsized mug of beer. The hands of the beer hall’s giant wall clock were five minutes away from pointing to three o’clock. Beneath the dial stood two lions facing each other and taking turns twisting their bodies to wind the spring. Both were male lions with tails curled like coat hooks. Eventually the long Bruckner ended, to be replaced by Ravel’s Bolero. Strange pairing.

			I ordered a second beer and went to the toilet to pee. My pee never ended. I wondered how I could possibly produce so much pee, but I was in no hurry, so I just let it keep going and going. I think it took a good two minutes to end, while Bolero kept playing behind me. There was a certain mystery to peeing with a Bolero accompaniment, as if I were going to go on peeing forever.

			By the time I finished peeing, I felt as if I had been reborn a different person. I washed my hands, looked at myself in the toilet’s warped mirror, and went back to my table to drink more beer. I wanted another cigarette but realized I had left my box of Larks in the apartment kitchen, so I got the waiter to bring me a pack of Seven Stars and a book of matches.

			Time felt as if it had come to a stop in the empty beer hall, but in fact it kept moving ahead. The lions continued alternating their 180-degree twisting, and the clock hands had advanced to 3:10. I kept watch on the clock, leaned an elbow on the table, and took sips of beer and drags on my cigarette.

			However you look at it, staring at the hands of a clock is a purely meaningless way to pass the time, but I couldn’t think of anything to do instead. Most human activity devolves from the premise that one is going to go on living, but take away that premise and not much is left.

			I pulled my wallet from my pocket and checked its contents, one item at a time. There were five ten-thousand-yen bills and a number of thousand-yen bills. In the other pocket was a money clip holding twenty ten-thousand-yen bills. In addition to the cash were my American Express and Visa cards and two bank cash cards. I bent the cash cards into four and threw them in the ashtray. I had no way of using them anymore. I also got rid of my indoor-pool ID, my video-rental ID, and the bonus card they give you when you buy coffee beans. I kept my driver’s license but threw away two old business cards. The ashtray filled up with the wreckage of my life. All that was left to me at the end was my cash, credit cards, and driver’s license.

			When the clock hands advanced to 3:30, I left my seat, paid the check, and walked out of the beer hall. The rain had all but stopped while I was having my beer, so I decided to leave my umbrella in the umbrella stand. Not a bad sign: the weather was improving, and I was shedding my responsibilities.

			Having gotten rid of my umbrella, I felt refreshed and wanted to go someplace else, preferably a place with lots of people. I stopped by the Sony Building and spent some time looking at the lined-up TVs with a lot of Arab tourists, then went underground and bought a ticket to Shinjuku on the Marunouchi Line. I seemed to have dozed off the second I hit the seat, which I realized when the train pulled into Shinjuku.

			Passing through the ticket gate, I recalled the skull and shuffling data that I had left at the baggage check here. Neither of them would do me any good at this point, and I didn’t have the claim check with me, but I had nothing better to do, so I decided to retrieve them. I climbed the station stairs and went to the short-term baggage check window, where I told them I had lost my claim check.

			“Did you look hard for it?” the clerk asked me.

			I told him I had.

			“What did you leave here?”

			“A blue sports bag with a Nike logo,” I said.

			“What’s a Nike logo?”

			I asked for a memo pad and pencil and drew a Nike logo that looked like a squashed boomerang, writing “NIKE” above it. He studied it dubiously and went off with the pad in hand to look among the shelves, returning eventually with my bag.

			“This?”

			“Right,” I said.

			“Can I see an ID with your name and address?”

			I handed him my driver’s license, which he examined against the tag on the bag. He pulled the tag off, set it on the counter along with a ballpoint pen, and said, “Sign here.” I signed the tag, took the bag, and thanked the clerk.

			Granted, retrieving the bag was a kind of success, but now I had a blue Nike sports bag that clashed with my outfit. I couldn’t possibly take a girl out to dinner carrying something like that. I considered buying a bag to take its place, but I’d have to have a big suitcase or a bowling-ball case to hold something as big as the skull. A suitcase would be too heavy, and a bowling-ball case would be even worse than the Nike bag.

			A good deal of thinking led me to the conclusion that the best thing I could do was rent a car and throw the bag into the back seat. Then I wouldn’t have to lug the bag around or worry about it clashing with my outfit. If possible, I wanted to have a stylish European car. Not that I was into European cars, but since this was a special day in my life, I felt I ought to be able to ride around in a well-designed automobile for a change. I had only ever driven a broken-down Volkswagen or little Japanese cars.

			I walked into a coffee house, asked to use their yellow pages, marked four car-rental agencies near Shinjuku Station with a ballpoint pen, and dialed one after another. None of them had European cars. They had almost no cars left on Sundays this time of year and never had foreign cars to begin with. Of the four, the first two had zero vehicles left that qualified as passenger cars. The third had a tiny Civic they could rent me. The last place had one Toyota Carina 1800 GT twin-cam turbo and one Toyota Corona Mark II. Both were brand-new and had car stereos, the lady said. I was fed up with phoning for cars, so I decided to take the Carina 1800 GT. I wasn’t much interested in cars to begin with, so I was fine with anything and wouldn’t have recognized either car if I fell on it.

			Next, I went to a record store and bought several cassette tapes—Johnny Mathis’s Johnny’s Greatest Hits, Schoenberg’s Verklärte Nacht conducted by Zubin Mehta, Kenny Burrell’s Stormy Monday, The Popular Duke Ellington, Trevor Pinnock’s Brandenburg Concertos, and a Bob Dylan tape containing “Like a Rolling Stone.” I had to buy such an odd mix because I myself had no idea what kind of music I’d want to hear in the Carina 1800 GT. I might want to listen to James Taylor once I was seated behind the wheel. Or Viennese waltzes. Or the Police. Or Duran Duran. Or nothing at all. I just didn’t know.

			I tossed the six tapes into my bag and went to the rental agency, where I looked at the car, gave them my license, and signed the forms. Compared with my own car, the driver’s seat of the Carina 1800 GT might as well have been in the cockpit of a space shuttle. The interior of my car might look like a pit dwelling to anyone used to driving the 1800 GT. I slipped Bob Dylan into the tape deck and spent a long time trying out all the switches on the dashboard while “Watching the River Flow” played. I didn’t want to risk hitting the wrong switch while driving.

			I spent so much time parked out front testing switches that the nice young woman who had helped me with the rental came out of the office and asked if there was anything wrong. She stood by the car with a clean, fresh smile straight out of a well-made TV commercial: white teeth, smooth chin, nice lipstick color.

			There was no problem, I told her: I was just checking things over to make sure I wouldn’t have any problems later.

			“I see,” she said with another pleasant smile. Her smile reminded me of a bright, unaffected girl I had gone to high school with. Someone had told me that she had married a radical activist she met in college, had two children with him, but then abandoned them all and had never been heard from since. Who could have predicted that a seventeen-year-old fan of J. D. Salinger and George Harrison would later give birth to a revolutionary’s children and disappear?

			“I wish all our customers were so careful. It would make our jobs much easier!” the young woman said. “These new cars’ computerized dashboards can be very confusing for people not used to them.”

			I nodded in agreement. I was obviously not the only one unused to the controls. “Which button do I push to get the square root of one hundred and eighty-five?” I asked.

			“I think you’ll have to wait for the next model for that,” she said with a laugh. “This is Bob Dylan, isn’t it?”

			“Right.” Dylan was singing “Positively 4th Street.” A good song is still good twenty years later.

			“I can always recognize Bob Dylan from one or two notes,” she said.

			“Because his harmonica playing is so much worse than Stevie Wonder’s?”

			She laughed again. I enjoyed making her laugh. Even I could still make a girl laugh, I realized.

			“No, his voice is so unusual,” she said. “He sounds like a little kid staring out the window at the rain.”

			“Well put,” I said, and meant it. I had read several books on Bob Dylan but none of them had contained such an apt expression—so concise and to the point. She blushed a little when I told her that.

			“I don’t know, it just feels that way to me.”

			“It’s hard to find the right words that say exactly what you feel,” I said. “Everybody has feelings, but not that many people can put them into words.”

			“My dream is to write a novel,” she said.

			“I’m sure you’ll write a good one,” I said.

			“Thanks very much.”

			“I’m surprised a young girl like you is listening to Bob Dylan.”

			“I like the old stuff—Dylan, the Beatles, the Doors, the Byrds, Jimi Hendrix. Like that.”

			“I’d like to have a nice, long talk with you sometime,” I said.

			She smiled and cocked her head a bit. Smart young girls knew three hundred ways to answer questions, and they bestowed them in equal measure to tired thirty-five-year-old divorced men. I thanked her and drove away. Dylan was singing “Stuck Inside of Mobile with the Memphis Blues Again.” I was in a great mood thanks to her. Renting the Carina 1800 GT had been the right choice.

			The dashboard’s digital clock read 4:42. The sunless city sky was headed toward evening. I drove home slowly through the congested streets. Traffic would have been heavy in any case on a rainy Sunday, but it was tragically paralyzed by a small green sports car that had crushed its hood against the side of an eight-ton truck loaded with cinder blocks. The car looked as bent out of shape as an empty cardboard carton that someone had accidentally sat on. Cops in black raincoats stood around the accident site while a tow-truck chain was being fastened to the car’s rear end.

			It took forever to work my way through the mess, but I still had plenty of time until my date, so I relaxed with another cigarette and more Bob Dylan. I wondered, too, what it must be like to marry a revolutionary activist. Was it possible to conceive of “revolutionary activist” as a profession? Revolution was not, strictly speaking, a profession, of course. If politics could be a profession, though, revolution should be a variant form of it. But I couldn’t reach any conclusions where that was concerned.

			Did the husband tell his wife how the revolution was progressing while he drank his beer at the dinner table after work?

			When Bob Dylan started singing “Like a Rolling Stone,” I quit thinking about revolution and started humming along with him. We all age. That was clear, just as rain falls from the sky.





34


			End of the World


			Skulls


			Flying birds caught my eye. They grazed the white-frozen slope of West Hill and vanished from my field of vision.

			I warmed my hands and feet by the stove and sipped the hot tea the old man had brewed for me.

			“I suppose you’ll be going to read old dreams tonight as usual?” he said. “At this rate, the snow is really going to pile up, and the hill will be dangerous both ways. Can’t you take this one day off?”

			“No, it’s out of the question, today of all days,” I said.

			The old man shook his head and went out, only to return a few minutes later with some snow boots he had managed to find somewhere.

			“Here, wear these. They’ll keep you from slipping on the snowy road.”

			I tried them on and they fit perfectly. A good sign.

			When it was time for me to go, I wrapped my scarf around my neck and put on my gloves and a hat the old man let me take. Then I folded my concertina and slipped it into my coat pocket. I loved the little instrument and wanted to have it with me at all times.

			“Take care,” the old man said. “This is the most important time for you. If something goes wrong now, it can’t be undone.”

			“Yes, I know,” I said.

			As I had expected, a lot of snow had blown into the pit. None of the old men were in evidence around the perimeter, and their tools had been nicely cleared away. The pit would probably be filled and hidden under the snow by tomorrow morning. I stood nearby for a long time, watching the snow blow in, but eventually I headed down the hill.

			The snow was intense. I could see only a few meters ahead. I took my glasses off and shoved them into my pocket. Pulling my scarf up to just beneath my eyes, I walked down the slope. The spikes of my snow boots made a pleasant sound, and birds cried now and then in the woods. I couldn’t tell how the birds must be feeling about the snow. And what about the beasts? What did they think of in the steady snowfall?



* * *



			—

			I arrived at the library an hour earlier than usual, but she was already waiting for me with the stove warming the place. She brushed the snow off my coat and knocked the caked snow from between my spikes.

			I had just been here the day before, but the sight of the library filled me with a deep sense of homecoming. The yellow light shining through the frosted glass, the stove giving off its comforting warmth, the coffeepot’s rising steam and delicious aroma, the hushed sense of old times remembered that permeated every corner of the room, her quiet way of moving without a moment’s wasted action: I felt as if I had lost all these things long, long ago. I relaxed the tension in my body, let myself be enveloped by the air of the room, and thought about how I was on the verge of losing this quiet world forever.

			“Would you like to eat now? Or perhaps a little later?” she asked.

			“Not now,” I said. “I’m not hungry.”

			“That’s fine, just let me know when you feel like eating. How about some coffee?”

			“Thanks, I’ll take that.”

			I took off my gloves and hung them on stove hooks to dry. While I warmed and flexed one frozen finger after another, I watched her take the coffeepot off the stove and pour two cups of coffee, one of which she handed to me. Her own cup she carried to the table and drank by herself.

			“The snow out there is awful,” I said. “I could hardly see a thing.”

			“Yes, this kind of snowfall will go on for days—until those thick clouds hanging in the sky have dropped all their snow.”

			I drank half my warm coffee and carried the rest to the table, where I took the seat across from her. Setting my cup down, I sat there looking at her, saying nothing. The more I looked at her, the more I felt a deep sadness that was threatening to suck me in.

			“Once it stops snowing,” she said, “I’m sure there will be more snow piled up than you’ve ever seen before.”

			“I might not be able to see it, though.”

			She raised her eyes from her coffee cup and looked at me.

			“Why is that? Anybody can see snow.”

			“Let’s forget about reading old dreams today and have a conversation, just the two of us,” I said. “An important conversation. I have things I want to tell you, and that I want you to tell me. Are you all right with that?”

			With no idea where the conversation was heading, she folded her hands atop the table and nodded, looking at me blankly.

			“My shadow is dying,” I said. “As I’m sure you know, this year’s winter is going to be particularly severe, and he probably can’t survive much longer. It’s just a matter of time. Once my shadow dies, I will lose my heart forever, which is why I have to decide a lot of things here and now—things about me and things about you: all those things. There’s hardly any time left to think about them, but even if I could go on thinking as long as I wanted, I’m sure the conclusion would be the same. I’ve already reached a conclusion.”

			I took another sip of coffee and checked once more to be certain that the conclusion I had in mind was not mistaken. No, it was not mistaken. But whichever way I chose to go, I would lose a great deal once and for all.

			“I think I’m going to leave this town tomorrow afternoon,” I said. “I’m not sure where I’ll be leaving from, or how. My shadow will be telling me that. He and I will leave together and go back to live in the old world we came from. I will be dragging my shadow after me the way I always used to: dragging my shadow and agonizing and suffering as I grow old and die. That kind of world is better suited to me, I feel—a place where my own heart will control me and drag me through life. You probably can’t understand what I’m trying to tell you.”

			She looked hard at me, though not so much at me as into the space where my face happened to be.

			“Don’t you like this town?”

			“When we first met, you told me I would like the town if I came here in search of quiet. I certainly do like the town’s quiet and tranquility. And I know for sure that its quiet and tranquility will reach a state of perfection if I lose what’s left of my heart. Not one thing exists here that would cause a person any suffering. And I think that if I lose this town, I will regret it for the rest of my life. But still, I can’t stay here. And that is because my heart will not permit me to stay here if I have to sacrifice my shadow and the beasts. So, however much peace it might give me, I cannot deceive my own heart—even if my heart should soon vanish completely. That’s an entirely different matter. Once something is lost, even if it should vanish completely, it goes on being lost forever. Do you understand what I am saying?”

			She stayed silent for a long time, staring at her own fingers. The steam was no longer rising from the coffee in our cups. Not a thing in the room was moving.

			“You’ll never come back here, will you?”

			I shook my head. “Once I leave this place, I can’t come back. That much is clear. Even if I wanted to, the gate probably wouldn’t open.”

			“And doesn’t that matter to you?”

			“Losing you would be very painful. But I love you, and the most important thing is the honesty of that feeling. I don’t want to keep you if it means turning my love into something unnatural and deformed. If that’s what it would take, I could far better stand to lose you and keep my heart.”

			The room fell silent again, which seemed to exaggerate the occasional crackling of coals. My coat, scarf, hat, and gloves hung by the stove. The town had given them all to me. Plain and simple though they were, each piece of clothing had found a place in my heart.

			“I’ve thought about letting my shadow escape alone and staying here by myself,” I said to her. “But then I’d probably be banished to the Forest and never be able to see you again, since you can’t live in the Forest. The only ones who can live in the Forest are people who still have some heart inside them because their shadows couldn’t be completely killed off. I still have heart, and you have none, which means you can’t even want me.”

			She shook her head.

			“It’s true,” she said, “I don’t have a heart. My mother had one, but not me. That’s why she was banished to the Forest. I never told you, but I clearly remember what happened when she was banished. Even now, I sometimes think about how I would have been living with her all this time if I had had a heart. And if I had one, I could properly want you, too.”

			“Even if it meant being banished to the Forest? You would wish to have a heart even so?”

			She stared hard at her hands folded atop the table, then released her fingers.

			“I remember what my mother used to say: if your heart is there, inside you, no matter where you go, you lose nothing. Is that true?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. “I can’t tell if it’s true or not. But your mother must have believed it. The problem is whether or not you believe it.”

			“I think I can believe it,” she said, looking straight into my eyes.

			“You can?” I asked, amazed. “You can believe that?”

			“Probably,” she said.

			“Listen to me,” I said. “I want you to think about this very carefully. It’s extremely important. To believe something, whatever it might be, is distinctly a function of the heart. Do you see what I mean? Let’s say you believe in something. That belief might well be betrayed. And if it’s betrayed, what comes next is disillusionment. These are none other than movements of the heart. Do you have a heart?”

			She shook her head. “I don’t know. I was just thinking of my mother, nothing beyond that. I just thought for a moment that I might possibly be capable of believing.”

			“I think that means you still have something left inside you connected to the existence of the heart. It’s just locked in there and won’t come out. That’s how you’ve been able to come this far without its being detected by the wall.”

			“If there is heart still left inside me, does that mean they couldn’t fully kill my shadow—the same as with my mother?”

			“No, probably not. Your shadow’s dead and buried in Apple Wood. That’s shown in the records. But the memories of your mother remain inside you, acting as a medium that preserves a kind of afterimage or fragment of your heart and probably unsettling you. If you trace them back, I think they should lead to something.”

			The room was unnaturally quiet—too quiet, as if all sounds were being absorbed by the snow dancing outside. It seemed to me the wall was holding its breath somewhere, listening to our every word. “Let’s talk about the old dreams,” I said. “All the thoughts and feelings produced each day by the hearts of you and the other townspeople are absorbed by the beasts, and that’s what turns into old dreams, isn’t it?”

			“Yes, of course. When our shadows die, the beasts take charge of—and take in—every single one of our thoughts and feelings.”

			“So doesn’t that mean I should be able to read all your thoughts and feelings from the old dreams?”

			“No, that can’t be done. My heart isn’t taken in as a single, organized unit. It’s absorbed in bits and pieces by lots of different beasts. The fragments become inextricably tangled up with the fragments of other people’s hearts. You wouldn’t be able to distinguish my thoughts and feelings from those of anybody else. I mean, think about it: you’ve been reading old dreams all this time, but you wouldn’t be able to guess which of them is mine, would you? Old dreams are like that. Nobody can untangle them. They remain in chaos until they fade away.”

			I knew exactly what she meant. I had been reading old dreams day after day, but I had never been able to understand a single one of them. And now I had only twenty-one hours left. In that time, somehow, I had to find my way to her heart. How strange! Here, in this deathless town, all the options open to me had been crammed into a strictly limited period of exactly twenty-one hours. I closed my eyes and took several deep breaths. I had to concentrate every nerve in my body to find the single thread that would enable me to unravel the situation.

			“Let’s go to the stacks,” I said.

			“The stacks?”

			“Let’s go in there and think things over while we look at the skulls. We might come up with a good solution.”

			I took her hand and stood up. We circled around behind the counter, where I opened the door to the stacks. She switched on the lights, their dull gleam illuminating the countless skulls lined up on the shelves. The skulls lay under a thick layer of dust, their faded whiteness showing in the gloom. Their mouths were all opened at the same angle, and their hollow eye sockets all glared forward at empty space. The chill silence they exhaled became a transparent mist that hung over the stacks. We leaned against the wall and gazed at the lines of skulls for a time. The chill pierced my flesh and shook my bones.

			“Do you really think you can read my heart?” she asked, looking at me.

			“I do think I can read your heart,” I said quietly.

			“But how?”

			“I don’t know yet,” I said. “But I’m sure I can do it. I know I can do it. There has to be a way, and I’m going to find it.”

			“You’ll be trying to pick out raindrops in a river.”

			“No, the heart is not like raindrops. It doesn’t fall from the sky, indistinguishable from other things. Trust me if you can. I’ll find it for sure. Anything and everything is here, and anything and everything is not here. I can definitely find what I’m looking for.”

			“Please find my heart,” she said a moment later.





35


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Nail Clipper, Butter Sauce, Iron Vase


			I parked in front of the library at 5:20 p.m. There was still plenty of time and the rain had stopped, so I decided to stroll down the damp street. I went into a coffee bar, ordered a coffee, watched a golf match on their TV for a while, then killed time playing a video game in the game center next door. The object of the game was to use my antitank artillery to wipe out the enemy tank corps attacking across a river. I was winning at first, but as the game progressed, the enemy tanks increased in number like a horde of lemmings and obliterated my base of operations. When my base was destroyed, the screen glowed white as if from a nuclear blast and the words “GAME OVER—INSERT COIN” appeared. I deposited another hundred-yen coin as directed and my base reappeared, intact, with a musical flourish. The purpose of this game was to lose the battle, literally. If I didn’t lose, it would go on forever, and a game that never ended would have no point. It would be bad for the game center and bad for me. Eventually, my base was destroyed again, and the white-hot glow appeared again, followed by “GAME OVER—INSERT COIN.”

			Next to the game center was a hardware store that had a handsome display of tools in the window—wrenches and screwdriver sets lined up next to a power nailer and an electric screwdriver, plus a German-made portable tool kit in a leather case. The case itself was no bigger than a woman’s purse, but it was crammed with everything from a miniature saw and hammer to a voltage meter. Next to it was a matched set of thirty chisels. I had never realized there could be such variety in chisel blades, so this set of thirty came as a real shock to me. Each was subtly different from the others, some of them shaped so weirdly I couldn’t imagine what they might be used for. Compared with the racket of the game center, the hardware store was as quiet as the back side of an iceberg. A balding, bespectacled middle-aged man was seated at the counter in the back of the dark shop, taking something apart with a screwdriver.

			It suddenly struck me that I could use a nail clipper, so I walked in and started searching for them. The nail clippers were displayed next to the shaving sets, neatly lined up like insect specimens pinned to a board. I picked up a strangely shaped one and brought it to the counter. It was a flat stainless-steel bar some five centimeters long. I couldn’t figure out where you had to press it to make it clip fingernails.

			When I set it on the counter, the owner put down his screwdriver and half-dismantled electric eggbeater and showed me how to use it.

			“See? Watch closely. First comes one, then two, and finally three. Right? Now it’s a nail clipper.”

			“Oh, I see,” I said. Unmistakably, it had become a nail clipper. He folded it back into a metallic bar and returned it to me. I followed his steps and turned it into a nail clipper again.

			“This is an excellent piece of equipment,” he said to me as if sharing a secret. “Made by Henckels. It’ll last you a lifetime. It’s perfect for traveling, won’t rust, and has strong blades. You could even trim a dog’s toenails.”

			I paid him twenty-eight hundred yen for the nail clipper. It came in a small, black leather case. He handed me my change and started dismantling the eggbeater again. He had a lot of black screws arranged on clean white plates, grouped by size. They all looked happy to me.



* * *



			—

			 				Having finished with the nail-clipper transaction, I went back to the car, where I listened to the Brandenburg Concertos while I waited for her and wondered why the screws in the plates had looked so happy to me. Maybe it was because they had ceased being parts of an eggbeater and had regained their independence as screws. Or perhaps it was because they had been set on white plates, which, for screws, was an unparalleled location. In any case, it felt good to see something looking so happy.

			I took the nail clipper out of my pocket and unfolded it again, tested it by clipping the very ends of my fingernails, refolded it, and slipped it back into its case. It cut nails with a satisfying click. Something about a hardware store was vaguely reminiscent of a deserted aquarium.

			Lots of people started coming out of the library as closing time neared, most of them high-school students who had likely been studying in the reading room, and most of them carrying vinyl sports bags like mine. The more I watched them, the more I began to feel that all high-school students were vaguely unnatural beings. Something about all of them was too greatly magnified, and something was lacking. From their point of view, to be sure, I must appear to be a far more unnatural being. The world was like that. People called this the generation gap.

			Mixed in among the high-school students there were several old men to be seen. Old men spent Sunday afternoons in the periodical reading room, reading magazines and all four major newspapers. And after storing up knowledge like elephants, they would go home where dinner awaited them. The old men did not appear as unnatural to me as the high-school students.

			When the people finished streaming out of the library, a siren sounded. It was six o’clock. The siren reminded me at long last that I was hungry. Come to think of it, all I had eaten since morning was half a ham-and-egg sandwich with corn soup, a miniature cheesecake, and oysters on the half shell. And yesterday I had eaten virtually nothing. My hunger was like a huge pit—a deep, dark pit into which you could hurl some of those stones I had seen underground and not hear a thing. I reclined the back of my car seat and stared at the car’s low ceiling while I thought about food. Every kind of food floated into my head and disappeared. Also floating in there were mounds of screws on white plates. The screws looked delicious slathered in white sauce and garnished with a sprig of watercress.

			My reference librarian came out at 6:15.

			“Is this your car?” she asked.

			“No, it’s a rental,” I said. “Why—not my style?”

			“No, it really isn’t. Maybe for a younger guy…?”

			“This was the only one they had left. I would have taken anything.”

			She circled the car, doing a quick inspection of the exterior, and let herself in through the passenger door. Then she examined the interior, opening and closing the ashtray, peeking into the glove compartment, and such.

			“The Brandenburgs?” she asked.

			“Do you like them?”

			“A lot. I listen to them all the time. Karl Richter’s version is my favorite. This sounds like a fairly new recording. Who’s it by?”

			“Trevor Pinnock,” I said.

			“Do you like Pinnock?”

			“Not especially,” I said. “I happened to see it and bought it. It’s not bad, though.”

			“Have you ever heard Pablo Casals’s?”

			“Never.”

			“You ought to give it a listen. I wouldn’t call it orthodox, but it’s very powerful.”

			“I’ll listen to it next chance I get,” I said, not knowing if I’d have another chance. I only had eighteen hours left, and I’d have to get a little sleep during that time. Short as my remaining life might be, I couldn’t possibly stay awake all night long.

			“What would you like to have for dinner?” I asked.

			“How about Italian?”

			“Nice.”

			“I know a place nearby. Let’s go there. They’ve always got the freshest ingredients.”

			“I’m starved,” I said. “I could eat a pile of screws.”

			“Me, too,” she said. “Nice shirt.”

			“Thanks,” I said.

			The restaurant was fifteen minutes’ drive from the library. As I slowly made my way through the winding roads of a residential area, taking care to avoid pedestrians and bicycles, it appeared suddenly midway up a hill. It was an ordinary white wood-frame house that had been converted for restaurant use and had a small Italian-restaurant sign you wouldn’t notice if you weren’t looking for it. Like other houses in the quiet neighborhood, the restaurant was surrounded by a high fence. Towering Himalayan cedars and pine trees thrust their dark branches out against the evening sky.

			“You’d never notice there was a restaurant here,” I said, parking in the lot they had out front.

			Three tables and four counter seats made up the entire eating area. An aproned waiter showed us to the innermost table, next to which a window gave us a view of plum-tree branches.

			“Why don’t we have some wine?” my librarian suggested.

			“I’ll let you decide,” I said. I knew beers better than wines. She and the waiter entered into a detailed discussion of the wine choice while I gazed at the plum tree outside the window. I found it odd that such a Japanese tree should be growing in the yard of an Italian restaurant, but maybe it wasn’t so odd after all. Maybe they had plum trees in Italy, too. They had otters in France, after all. Once the wine was decided, we opened our menus and plotted our strategy for the meal. It took us a long time to make our choices. For appetizers, we ordered a shrimp salad with strawberry dressing and oysters on the half shell, an Italian-style liver pâté, squid boiled in its own ink, eggplant Parmesan, and marinated smelts. For pasta, I chose a tagliatelle, and she took spaghetti with pesto.

			“I have an idea,” she said. “Why don’t we also split a macaroni with fish sauce?”

			“I’d go for that,” I said.

			“What’s the best fish you have today?” she asked the waiter.

			“Today we have fresh sea bass,” he replied. “Would you like it steamed with an almond garnish?”

			“I’ll have that,” she said.

			“Me, too,” I said. “Also, a spinach salad and mushroom risotto.”

			“I’ll take warm vegetables and a tomato risotto,” she added.

			“I should warn you that our risottos are quite large,” the waiter said, looking concerned.

			“No problem,” I said. “I’ve hardly eaten anything since yesterday morning, and she has gastric dilation.”

			“I’m a black hole,” she said.

			“I’ll bring them as soon as I can,” the waiter said.

			“For dessert, I’ll have grape sherbet and lemon soufflé with espresso,” she said.

			“I’ll have the same,” I said.

			The waiter took some time to write down our choices, and when he went off with his order pad, she smiled at me and said, “I hope you didn’t order a lot just to keep up with me.”

			“No, I’m really hungry,” I said. “I haven’t been this hungry in a very long while.”

			“That’s wonderful,” she said. “I don’t trust small eaters. I always get the feeling they’re sneaking food to make up for what they missed. What do you think?”

			“I don’t know,” I said. Because I really didn’t know.

			“ ‘I don’t know’ is one of your pet expressions, isn’t it?”

			“Maybe so,” I said.

			“ ‘Maybe so’ is another one.”

			With nothing to say in reply, I just shut up and nodded.

			“Why is that? Because all thought is uncertain?”

			I don’t know, maybe so, I was muttering silently in my head when the waiter came along with the wine, which he uncorked and poured with all the servility of the imperial court orthopedist resetting the crown prince’s dislocated shoulder.

			“ ‘It’s not my fault’ was the pet phrase of Camus’s protagonist in The Stranger, wasn’t it? His name was…let’s see…”

			“Meursault,” I said.

			“That’s it—Meursault,” she repeated. “I read it in high school. High-school kids these days would never read The Stranger, though. We recently did a survey at the library. What authors do you like?”

			“Turgenev.”

			“Turgenev’s not such a great writer. He’s really out of fashion now.”

			“Maybe so,” I said. “But I like him. Flaubert and Thomas Hardy, too.”

			“Don’t you read anybody new?”

			“Somerset Maugham sometimes.”

			“Not too many people these days would call Maugham a new writer,” she said, tilting her wineglass.

			“His stuff is fun, though. I’ve read The Razor’s Edge three times. It’s not such a great novel, but it keeps you reading. Better than the other way around.”

			“Hmm,” she said, apparently intrigued. “Anyhow, that orange shirt looks good on you.”

			“Thanks,” I said. “Your dress is very pretty.”

			“Thank you,” she said. It was a dark-blue velvet dress with a little white lace collar. She wore two thin silver chains around her neck.

			“I went home and changed after you called me. It’s very handy living close to my work.”

			“Of course,” I said. Of course.

			They brought some appetizers to the table, so we ate in silence for a while. Simple, unaffected flavors and fresh ingredients. The oysters were firm and smelled of Mother Sea, as if they had just been snatched from the ocean floor.

			“So, did the unicorn thing work out?” she asked while lifting an oyster from its shell with her fork.

			“More or less,” I said, dabbing at the squid ink on my lips. “I think I can say it’s finished.”

			“Was there a unicorn somewhere?”

			“In here,” I said, tapping my forehead. “They live in my head. A whole herd of them.”

			“In a symbolic sense?”

			“No, I don’t think they have much symbolic meaning. They actually live in my consciousness. Somebody found them there for me.”

			“Sounds interesting. Tell me more.”

			“It’s not that interesting,” I said, passing the eggplant dish to her. In exchange, she passed me the smelts.

			“But I really want to hear it.”

			“Down at the bottom of your consciousness lies a kind of core that you yourself are unable to perceive. In my case, the core consciousness is a town. A river runs through it, and it’s surrounded by a high brick wall. The people who live in the town can’t get out. Only the unicorns can. The unicorns absorb the townspeople’s selves or egos like a blotter and carry them out of the town. So in the town there are no selves, no egos. Supposedly, I live in that town. I’ve never actually seen it with my own eyes, so that’s all I know about it.”

			“Wow, that’s a very original story,” she said.

			Only after I told her about the town did I realize that the Doctor had not said a word to me about the river. Little by little, it seemed, I was being drawn into that world.

			“Yes, but it’s not one that I consciously made up,” I said.

			“Even if you did it subconsciously, you are the one who made it up, right?”

			“I suppose so,” I said.

			“The smelts are not bad, wouldn’t you say?”

			“Not bad.”

			“But anyway, don’t you think your story is similar to the Russian unicorn story I read to you?” she asked while cutting a slice of eggplant in half. “The Ukrainian unicorns also lived in a community surrounded by high barriers—cliffs in that case.”

			“That’s similar,” I said.

			“There might be other shared points.”

			“True,” I said, shoving my hand into my jacket pocket. “I’ve got a present for you.”

			“Oh, I love presents,” she said.

			I took out the nail clipper and handed it to her. She slipped it from its case and studied it with a puzzled look. “What is this?”

			“Just hand it to me a second,” I said, and took it back from her. “Now watch: first one, then two, and three.”

			“A nail clipper?”

			“Exactly. It’s very handy for travel. You reverse the steps to fold it up. Look.”

			I turned the nail clipper into a metal bar again and returned it to her. She unfolded and refolded it.

			“Interesting. Thanks very much,” she said. “But tell me, do you often give girls nail clippers of all things?”

			“No, you’re the first. I was looking at stuff in a hardware store before and felt like buying something. I got this because the chisel set was too big.”

			“This will do fine, thanks. I’m always losing track of my nail clippers, so I’ll keep this one in the inner pocket of my bag.”

			She slipped the nail clipper into its case and put it into her shoulder bag.

			The waiter took our appetizer plates away and brought the pasta. I was still tremendously hungry. The six appetizers had hardly made a dent in the pit of emptiness inside me. It didn’t take me long to send the fairly big plate of tagliatelle down to my stomach, after which I ate half of the macaroni with fish sauce. Once I had finished that much, I felt as if a faint light had come into view in the darkness.

			We drank more wine between the end of the pasta course and the arrival of the sea bass.

			“By the way,” she said with the wineglass pressed to her lips so that her voice was strangely muffled inside the glass, “about the way your apartment was wrecked. Did you use special machines to do that, or did a whole gang of people do it together?”

			“No machines. One person did it alone,” I said.

			“A very solidly built person, I would guess?”

			“A guy who doesn’t know what it means to be tired.”

			“An acquaintance of yours?”

			“No, I had never met him before.”

			“Your apartment wouldn’t have been messed up that badly by a rugby game.”

			“Probably not,” I said.

			“Did it have anything to do with that unicorn business?” she asked.

			“Probably. I think so.”

			“And was everything settled?”

			“No, it hasn’t been settled—for them, at least.”

			“How about for you?”

			“For me, you could say it’s settled—or not,” I said. “I had no choice in the matter, so you could see it as settled or not settled. They ignored my autonomy from the outset where this was concerned. I was like the only human being on a seals’ water-polo team.”

			“And that’s why you’re going far away tomorrow, I guess?”

			“Pretty much.”

			“You let yourself get mixed up in something complicated, didn’t you?”

			“It’s too complicated even for me to understand. The world’s getting more complicated all the time—nuclear weapons and the Sino-Soviet split and the evolution of computers and artificial insemination and spy satellites and artificial organs and lobotomies and on and on. I can’t make heads or tails of new car dashboards. In my case, to put it simply, I’m tangled up in an information war. They’re just using me to fill the gap until computers begin to have selves. I’m a temporary make-do.”

			“You mean computers are going to have selves sometime?”

			“Probably,” I said. “Then they’ll be able to scramble data and do calculations by themselves without fear that someone will steal them.”

			The waiter brought our sea bass and risotto.

			“I don’t understand those things,” she said while cutting her sea bass with a fish knife. “A library is a peaceful place. They’re full of books, and people come to read them, that’s all. The information is open to everyone, and no one has to fight a war over it.”

			“Yes, I should have worked at a library, too,” I said. I really should have.

			We ate our sea bass and every last grain of risotto. The bottom of my hunger pit was finally coming into view.

			“The sea bass was delicious,” she said with obvious satisfaction.

			“There’s a trick to making good butter sauce,” I said. “You mix finely minced shallots with high-quality butter and cook them with care. You won’t get full flavor if you let your attention wander.”

			“You really like to cook, don’t you?”

			“Cooking has hardly evolved since the nineteenth century. At least good cooking hasn’t. Fresh ingredients, concentration, taste, aesthetic sense: those things will never evolve.”

			“Their lemon soufflés are delicious, too,” she said. “Do you still have room?”

			“Of course,” I said. I had room for five soufflés.

			We ate our grape sherbet and soufflés and drank espresso. She was right about the soufflé: it was magnificent. This was what dessert had to be like. The espresso was so dense and flavorful you could almost pick it up and eat it.

			When we were done tossing everything into our gigantic pits, the chef came out to pay his respects. We told him how satisfying the meal had been.

			“Cooking for guests who can eat so much gives our work real meaning,” he said. “Even in Italy there aren’t that many people who can match you.”

			“Thanks very much,” I said.

			When the chef went back to the kitchen, we called the waiter over and ordered another espresso.

			“You’re the first person who’s ever been able to eat as much as I could,” she said.

			“I could go for more,” I said.

			“I have a frozen pizza and a bottle of Chivas Regal at home.”

			“Sounds good to me.”



* * *



			—

			Her place was, to be sure, quite close to the library—a little cottage in a development. It had a proper entryway and a garden just big enough for a person to lie down in. Though it was unlikely to get any sunlight to speak of, the garden had azaleas in one corner, and the house had a second floor.

			“I bought this house while I was married,” she said. “I paid off the mortgage with my husband’s life insurance. We were planning to have a family, but it’s too big for one person.”

			“I would think so,” I said while scanning the living room from the sofa.

			She took the pizza out of the freezer and put it in the oven. Then she brought the Chivas Regal and glasses and ice to the living room. I switched on the stereo, chose a cassette tape at random, and pressed Play on the cassette deck. The tape had Jackie McLean, Miles Davis, Wynton Kelly, and other jazz musicians like that. Until the pizza was done, I drank whiskey and listened to things like “Bags’ Groove” and “The Surrey with the Fringe on Top.” She opened a bottle of wine for herself.

			“You like old jazz?” she asked.

			“This was all I used to listen to—in jazz coffeehouses—when I was in high school.”

			“You don’t listen to new stuff?”

			“I’ll listen to the Police, Duran Duran, and such if people put them on.”

			“But you don’t go out of your way to hear them?”

			“No need,” I said.

			“My husband—he died—used to listen to old music all the time.”

			“Like me.”

			“True, he was a lot like you. He was beaten to death on a bus with an iron vase.”

			“He what?”

			“He complained to a young guy on the bus who was using hair spray, and the guy attacked him with an iron vase.”

			“Why would a young guy be carrying a thing like that?”

			“Who knows?” she said. “I never understood it.”

			I didn’t understand it, either.

			“Don’t you think it’s a terrible way to die—to be beaten to death on a bus?”

			“Yes, really. What a shame,” I said.

			The pizza was done, and we each took half, sitting side by side on the sofa, drinking.

			“Want to see a unicorn skull?” I asked her.

			“Yes, for sure,” she said. “You really have one?”

			“A replica. Not a real one.”

			“Still, I’d like to see it.”

			I went to the car parked outside and found the sports bag in the back seat. The early-October night was nice and balmy. A nearly full moon was visible through breaks in the overcast. It would probably be a nice day tomorrow. I went back to the living-room sofa, unzipped the bag, took out the towel-wrapped skull, and handed it to her. She set her wineglass on the table and examined the skull in detail.

			“It’s very well made,” she said.

			“An expert on skulls made it for me,” I said, taking a sip of whiskey.

			“It looks absolutely real.”

			I stopped the cassette player, took the stainless-steel rod out of the bag, and tapped on the skull. It made the same low, breathy sound as before.

			“What’s that all about?”

			“Every skull has its own unique sound,” I explained. “Skull experts can bring back all kinds of memories from the sounds.”

			“What a lovely story!” she said, picking up the rod to try tapping on the skull herself. “Hard to believe it’s a replica.”

			“The guy who made it is fairly obsessive.”

			“My husband’s skull was crushed. I’m sure it wouldn’t have produced the right sound.”

			“I wonder,” I said. “Who knows?”

			She set the skull on the table, picked up her wineglass, and took a sip. Shoulder-to-shoulder on the sofa, we tilted our drinks back and looked at the skull, which, in its fleshless boniness, appeared to be smiling at us and, at the same time, gasping for breath.

			“Put on more music,” she said.

			I picked a cassette at random from the pile of tapes, slipped it into the player, and pushed the button before returning to the sofa.

			“Is here okay, or do you want to go to bed upstairs?” she asked.

			“Here is better,” I said.

			Pat Boone’s “I’ll Be Home” was coming from the speakers. Time felt as if it were flowing in the wrong direction, but that didn’t matter. Time could flow any way it damn well pleased. She closed the lace curtains on the window facing the yard, turned the lights out, and began undressing in the moonlight. She removed her necklace, her bracelet-watch, and her velvet dress. I undid my own watch and tossed it behind the sofa. Then I took my jacket off, loosened my tie, and drank down the whiskey that remained in the bottom of my glass. While she was rolling down her pantyhose, the song changed to Ray Charles’s “Georgia on My Mind.” I closed my eyes, stretched my legs out on the table, and spun time in my head like swirling ice in a whiskey glass. Every single thing felt as if it had happened once before, long ago. Only the clothes we removed, the background music, and the lines we spoke were changing bit by bit. Not that those changes made any difference. Everything whirled round and round, arriving at the same place in the end, like a dead heat on a merry-go-round. No one’s horse pulled ahead or fell behind, arriving where they started out.

			“Everything feels as if it happened long ago,” I said with my eyes closed.

			“Of course it does,” she said, taking the glass out of my hand and slowly opening my shirt buttons, working her way down like popping open a string-bean pod.

			“How do you know that?” I asked.

			“I just do,” she said, kissing my bare chest. Her long hair trailed across my stomach. “Everything happened once a long time ago. It’s just whirling round and round. Isn’t that true?”

			Eyes closed, I gave myself over to the touch of her lips and hair. I thought about the sea bass, about the nail clipper, about the snail on the bench in front of the laundry. The world was full of suggestions.

			I opened my eyes and softly drew her to me, reaching around back to undo her bra hook. There was no bra hook.

			“It’s in front,” she said.

			Yes, the world was certainly evolving.



* * *



			—

			 				We made love three times and took a shower, curling up in a blanket on the sofa and listening to Bing Crosby. Mmm, wonderful. My erections had been as perfect as the Pyramids at Giza, and her hair rinse had a marvelous smell. The cushions were a little hard, but the sofa was a decent piece of furniture, from a time when they still knew how to make such things, with the smell of the sun from the old days. Yes, there had once been a time when sofas like this were provided as a matter of course.

			“Good sofa,” I said.

			“It’s so old and worn out, I’ve been thinking of replacing it.”

			“No, you should keep it.”

			“All right, I will,” she said.

			I sang along with Bing Crosby on “Danny Boy.”

			“You like this song?”

			“Very much,” I said. “I got first prize when I played it in a harmonica competition in grade school: a dozen pencils. I used to be a great harmonica player.”

			She laughed. “Life is so strange, isn’t it?”

			“Strange it is,” I said.

			She put “Danny Boy” on again and I sang along with it one more time. The second time made me sad for some reason.

			“Will you write to me from where you’re going?” she asked.

			“I will,” I said, “if letters can be sent from there.”

			We split the wine remaining in the bottle.

			“What time is it?” I asked.

			“Midnight,” she replied.





36


			End of the World


			Concertina


			“You have that feeling, don’t you?” she said. “That you can read my heart.”

			“I do. Your heart should be right here, where I can reach out and touch it. But I can’t tell exactly where it is. The way to find it should be out in front of me.”

			“If you feel that way, it must be true.”

			“But I can’t find it.”

			We sat side by side on the floor of the stacks, leaning against the wall and looking up at the lines of skulls. The skulls themselves maintained their utter stillness, telling me nothing.

			“Try remembering every little thing that has happened around you since your shadow started to weaken,” she said. “The key may be hiding there—the key to finding my heart.” She looked straight into my eyes for a time.

			Sitting on the chilly floor, I closed my eyes and listened for the sound of the skulls’ silence.

			“The old men were digging a pit outside my room this morning. I don’t know what they’re planning to bury in it, but it’s a huge pit. The sound of their shovels woke me up. It was almost as if they were digging a pit inside my head. Then the snow came and filled it.”

			“Something else?”

			“You and I went to the power plant in the Forest. You know that, too, don’t you? I met that young man, Caretaker, and talked about the Forest with him. Then he showed me the electrical generator on the wind hole. The wind made a terrible sound—as if it were blowing up from the bottom of Hell. Caretaker was a slim, soft-spoken young man.”

			“Something else?”

			“He gave me a concertina—a small, folding one. It was old, but it still made the sounds it was supposed to.”

			She sat very still on the floor, thinking. I could feel the air in the stacks growing colder by the second.

			“It’s probably the concertina,” she said. “I’m sure that’s the key.”

			“The concertina?”

			“It all threads together. The concertina is tied up with song, song is tied up with my mother, my mother is tied up with a scrap of my heart. Isn’t that it?”

			I went out of the stacks, took the concertina from the pocket of my coat hanging by the stove, and sat down beside her again, holding the concertina. I slipped my hands through the straps by the keyboards on either end and played a few chords.

			“What lovely sounds!” she said. “Are they like the sound of the wind?”

			“They are the wind,” I said. “I’m making different-sounding winds blow and combining them.”

			She kept her eyes tightly shut, listening to chords I was producing.

			I played all the chords I could remember, one after another. Then, feeling my way with the fingers of my right hand, I tried pressing out scales. These didn’t form melodies, but I was fine with that. All I had to do was let her listen to the sounds of the concertina as if they were the wind. I decided not to try for anything more, just entrust my heart to the wind like a bird.

			No, I could not abandon my heart, I told myself. However heavy or, at times, dark it might be, it could sometimes dance through the wind like a bird or see through all eternity. I could even imbue the sounds of this tiny concertina with the thoughts and feelings of my heart.

			I felt as if the sound of the wind blowing outside the library building had found its way to my ears. The winter wind was dancing through the town. It swirled around the high-soaring clock tower, rushed beneath the bridges, and swayed the branches of the willow trees that lined the river. It shook the trees of the Forest, blew across the grassy plain, whistled past the electric cables of the factory district, and slammed against the town gate. The beasts were freezing in its embrace, and people in their houses were breathing as quietly as possible. I closed my eyes and called forth scenes of the town in my mind: the sandbar in the river, the watchtower in the western wall, the power plant in the Forest, the sunny spot outside our government residence where the old men sat and told stories. The beasts knelt down to drink from the still pools of the river, and green summer grass waved in the breeze on the steps to the canal. I could clearly recall Southern Pool from the time she and I had gone to see it together. I remembered the small plowed field behind the power plant, the western grasslands with the old barracks, and the house ruins and old well that remained near the wall in the Eastern Forest.

			Next, I thought about the people I had met here—the Colonel in the room next to mine and the other old men who lived in the government residence, the power plant’s Caretaker, and Gatekeeper: all of them were probably listening to the blizzard tearing its way across the landscape.

			I was on the verge of losing each and every view and each and every person of the town forever—including her, of course. But I would surely remember this world and the people who lived in it just as permanently as yesterday’s memories. Even though the town appeared unnatural and wrong in my eyes, and the people who lived there had lost their hearts, they were not to blame for it. I would even miss Gatekeeper, I knew for certain. He, too, was finally nothing but a fragment incorporated into the town’s strong circular chain. It was just a matter of something’s having constructed the powerful wall and the people having been taken into it. I felt that I would be capable of loving all the views and people of the town. I could not remain in the town, but I loved them.

			Just then something struck me faintly in the heart. A chord stayed with me as if it were in need of something. I opened my eyes and pressed the chord key again with my left hand. With my right hand, I searched for one of the notes that was in the chord. After a long time, I was finally able to find the first four notes in the chord. Like soft sunlight, the four notes floated slowly down from the sky into my heart. The four notes needed me, and I needed them.

			Holding down the one chord key with my left hand, I played the four notes in order with my right hand over and over. The four notes were calling for the next several notes and a different chord. I looked first for the other chord and found it right away. Finding a melody took a little longer, but the first four notes led me to the next five. Then came another chord and three notes.

			It was a song—not a complete song, but the first line of a song. Over and over again, I played the three chords with my left hand and the twelve notes with my right hand. It was a song I should know well.

			“Danny Boy.”

			The twelve notes had words: “Oh, Danny boy, the pipes, the pipes are calling.”

			I closed my eyes and played the next part. Once I had recalled the title, the rest of the melody and chords flowed naturally from my fingertips. I played the song again and again. I clearly felt the melody infusing my heart and the stiffness and tension in my body dissipating. Hearing a song for the first time in ages, I could feel how keenly I had been longing for music in body and mind. I had lost song for such a very long time that I had become incapable even of feeling my hunger for it. Music was releasing my heart and muscles from the long winter’s icy grip and giving my eyes a familiar warm light.

			I could almost feel the town itself breathing inside the music. I was in the town, and the town was in me. The town breathed and swayed along with the swaying of my body. The wall, too, was moving and twisting as if it were my own skin.

			After playing the tune again and again for a very long time, I pulled my hands from the straps and set the instrument on the floor. I sat down, leaning against the wall, and closed my eyes. I felt my body still swaying. All the things in here were me myself: the wall, the gate, the beasts, the Forest, the river, the wind hole, the pool. They were all inside my body. Even this long winter might well be me myself.

			Long after I had set the concertina down, she clung to my arm with both hands, her eyes closed, shedding tears. I set my free hand on her shoulder and pressed my lips against her eyelids. Her tears gave her a warm, moist softness. A faint, gentle light shone upon her cheeks, making her tears glisten. The light, however, did not come from the dull electric lamp hanging from the stacks’ ceiling. It was a whiter, warmer glow, like starlight.

			I stood up and switched the ceiling light off. Now I was able to find the source of the other light. The skulls were glowing. The room had all the brightness of noontime. The glow was as soft as spring sunlight and as gentle as the light of the moon. The old light sleeping in the countless skulls lined up on the shelves was now awakening. The rows of skulls glittered silently like the sun-dappled morning sea. Even in the presence of such light, however, my eyes no longer felt discomfort. The light gave me peace and filled my heart with the warmth of old memories. My eyes had healed, I knew, and nothing could hurt them anymore.

			It was a marvelous sight to behold, the entire space filled with points of light. The skulls were releasing silent promised light, each like a jewel glowing on the floor of a transparent sea. I picked one up and softly traced its surface with my fingertips. Her heart was in there: I could feel it. Tiny bits of it were floating up into my fingertips. Each grain of light consisted of nothing but the faintest warmth and light, but they were there, and no one could take them away.

			“Your heart is in there,” I said to her. “Your heart and no one else’s. It’s floating free and glowing.”

			She gave me a tiny nod and looked straight at me with tear-moistened eyes.

			“I can read your heart. All of it. All at once. Your heart has not been lost and scattered in pieces. It’s in there, and no one can take it away.”

			I kissed her eyes again.

			“I want you to leave me alone in this room for a while,” I said. “I want to have your whole heart read by morning, and then I’ll get some sleep.”

			She nodded to me once again, paused to survey the rows of glowing skulls, and left the stacks. When the door closed, I leaned against the wall and stared, for a very long time, at the skulls’ countless inlaid grains of light. They were the old dreams she had once embraced, and they were, at the same time, my own old dreams. At last, I was able to meet them face-to-face at the end of my long journey in the walled town.

			I picked up one of the skulls, laid my hands on it, and softly closed my eyes.





37


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Lights, Introspection, Clean


			I didn’t know how long I had been sleeping. Someone was shaking me by the shoulder. The first thing I sensed was the smell of the sofa. Then came my annoyance at being awakened. My sleep was like a rich field of grain in autumn under attack by a swarm of locusts, all trying to strip it bare.

			In spite of that, there was something inside me demanding that I wake up, something inside me hitting my head with a big iron vase and screaming, “You don’t have time to sleep!”

			“Wake up!” she said. “Please!”

			I sat up on the sofa and opened my eyes. I was wearing an orange bathrobe. She had on a men’s white T-shirt and stood over me, shaking my shoulder. With nothing on but the white T-shirt and tiny white panties, she looked like a skinny little girl who could be blown away like dust in a stiff breeze. Where had our gigantic Italian meal disappeared to? And where could my watch have gone? The place was still dark. Unless there was something wrong with my eyes, the night was still far from ending.

			“Look at the table,” she said.

			I looked at the table. A miniature Christmas-tree kind of thing was perched there. But it was not a Christmas tree. It was too small for that, and besides, early October was no time for Christmas trees. I drew the lapels of the bathrobe together and stared at the thing on the table. It was the skull I had put there. Or no, maybe she was the one who had put it there. I couldn’t be sure which of us had done it. That didn’t matter. In any case, the thing on the table that was glittering like a Christmas tree was the unicorn skull I had brought here. It was covered with tiny points of light.

			The lights themselves were tiny and not very strong, but they were spread over the skull like a star-filled sky, each point glowing softly white. Around each light was a separate membranelike covering that softened and dulled the outline and made the lights appear to be floating over rather than glowing on the skull’s surface. Side-by-side on the sofa, we sat staring in silence at the small ocean of lights for a very long time. She clung softly to my arm with both hands while I kept my hands on the collar of the bathrobe. The night was deep and utterly still.

			“Is some kind of gizmo doing this?” she asked.

			I shook my head. I had spent one night in my apartment with the skull there, but that time it had not given off any light. If the source of this light was some kind of glow-in-the-dark paint or luminous moss, it shouldn’t shine at certain times and not at others. It would always shine in the dark. Besides, the skull had not been shining before the two of us fell asleep. A device couldn’t be doing it. It was something special that transcended artifice. No kind of manmade power could produce such a soft, gentle light.

			I gently pried away the fingers she had locked around my arm, reached for the skull on the table, and quietly set it on my lap.

			“Aren’t you afraid of it?” she whispered.

			“Not at all,” I said. I really wasn’t afraid of it. This thing was somehow deeply connected with my own self, and no one could be afraid of himself.

			I laid my open hands on the skull like a cover and felt a faint lingering warmth in my palms. Even my fingers looked as if they were wrapped in a pale membrane of light. Immersing all ten of them in the faint warmth, I closed my eyes and felt old memories rising in my heart like far-off clouds.

			“It sure doesn’t look like a replica to me,” she said. “Don’t you think it’s the real thing—a skull with distant memories from the distant past?”

			I nodded, saying nothing. But what could I know about it? Whatever it was, it was emitting lights now, and those lights were in my hands. All I knew for sure—intuitively—was that the lights were telling me something, offering me hints about something, hints about the new world to come and the old world I had left behind, but hints that I could not fully understand.

			I opened my eyes and looked again at the white glow on my fingers. I was unable to grasp the meaning of that glow, but one thing I could tell for certain was that it contained nothing perceptibly malicious or hostile. It looked satisfied to be held in my hands. With a fingertip, I softly traced a vein of light that floated on the surface. There was nothing to fear, I told myself. There was no reason to fear me myself.

			I returned the skull to the table and pressed that fingertip to her cheek.

			“It’s so warm,” she said.

			“The lights are warm,” I said.

			“Is it okay for me to touch the skull?”

			“Of course.”

			She rested her hands on the skull for a time, eyes closed. Her fingers, like mine, became covered by a membrane of white light.

			“I feel something,” she said. “I’m not sure what it is, but it’s something I felt somewhere long ago—air or light or sound. Something like that. I can’t explain it, though.”

			“I can’t explain it, either,” I said. “Hmm, I’m thirsty.”

			“How about a beer? Or water?”

			“I’d rather have a beer,” I said.

			While she was grabbing a beer from the refrigerator and carrying it into the living room with glasses, I picked my watch up from behind the sofa and looked at the time: 4:16. Another hour and a little bit until the sun would be coming up. I lifted her phone and dialed my apartment. I had never called my own place before, so it took me a while to recall the number. No one answered. I let it ring fifteen times, hung up, and called again, giving it another fifteen rings with the same result: no answer.

			Was the fat girl back with her grandfather underground? Or had she been kidnapped from my apartment by Semiotecs or System people? In any case, she would be doing fine, I was sure. She was at least ten times more capable than I was at handling any kind of situation. And she was half my age. She was amazing. After hanging up, I felt a little sad to think I’d never see her again. It was like watching the sofas and chandeliers being carted out of a shut-down hotel one at a time, the windows being closed and curtains lowered.

			We sat on the sofa, drinking beer and watching the white lights sparkle on the skull.

			“Is the skull glowing in response to you?” she asked.

			“I don’t know,” I said, “but I kind of think so. It’s responding to something if not to me.”

			I poured what was left of the beer into my glass and finished it off slowly. The predawn world was as hushed as a forest. Scattered over the carpet were the clothes we had stripped off—my blazer and shirt and tie and pants, her dress and stockings and slip. I felt as if my pile of clothing were one conclusion of my thirty-five years of life.

			“What are you looking at?” she asked.

			“Clothes,” I said.

			“Why look at clothes?”

			“They were a part of me until a little while ago. And yours were a part of you. But not anymore. Now they’re like a different person’s different clothes. They don’t look like mine.”

			“Maybe because we had sex?” she said. “People get introspective after sex.”

			“No, that’s not it,” I said, holding my empty glass. “I’m not feeling introspective. I’m just noticing the little things that make up the world—snails and rain dripping and hardware-store displays and stuff. All of a sudden, they’re starting to weigh on me.”

			“Shall we pick up our clothes?”

			“Nah, leave ’em. It’s more relaxing that way.”

			“Tell me about snails.”

			“I saw one in front of a laundry,” I said. “I never knew there were snails in the fall.”

			“There are snails all year long!”

			“Yeah, I guess so.”

			“In Europe, snails have a mythological significance,” she said. “The shell stands for the world of darkness, and when the snail comes out of its shell, it means the arrival of sunlight. That’s why when people see a snail, they instinctively knock on its shell to chase it away. Have you ever done that?”

			“Never,” I said. “You know all kinds of things, don’t you?”

			“You learn a lot when you work in a library.”

			I took my pack of Seven Stars from the table and lit up with beer-hall matches. Again I looked at our clothes on the floor. The sleeve of my shirt lay across her pale-blue stockings. Her velvet dress was twisted and folded at the waist, and beside it she had dropped her filmy slip, which lay there like a dangling flag. Her necklace and watch had landed on the sofa, and her black leather shoulder bag lay sideways on the corner coffee table.

			Her hurriedly stripped-off clothing looked more like her than she herself did. Maybe mine looked more like me than I myself did.

			“How did you end up working in a library?” I asked.

			“I always liked libraries,” she said. “They’re quiet and full of books and packed with knowledge. I didn’t want to work in a bank or a trading company, and I really didn’t want to be a teacher.”

			I blew my smoke up toward the ceiling and watched it go.

			“Do you want to know more about me?” she asked. “Like, where I was born, or what kind of girl I was or where I went to college or when I lost my virginity or my favorite color or stuff?”

			“No,” I said. “Not now. I’d like to learn about you little by little.”

			“I’d like to learn about you, too, little by little.”

			“I was born near the sea,” I said. “Whenever I’d go out to the beach the morning after a typhoon, there’d be all this stuff lying around—things the waves had washed up. I’d find all kinds of unimaginable things you’d never expect to end up in the ocean—bottles and wooden clogs and hats and eyeglass cases and chairs and tables. I loved finding stuff like that and always looked forward to the next storm. People probably threw the stuff away on the shore somewhere and it would be washed out to sea and washed back in again, I suppose.”

			I stubbed my cigarette out in an ashtray and set my empty glass on the table.

			“Strange, though, everything the ocean washed ashore had been purified. It was absolutely useless junk, but it was clean. There was never anything too dirty to touch. The ocean is special that way. Whenever I look back on my life, I remember that junk on the shore. My life was always like that—collecting junk, cleaning it off in my own way, and throwing it out somewhere else, useless, to rot.”

			“But you need style for that, don’t you—for cleaning the things off?”

			“What’s the use of style, though? Even a snail has style. I just go from one beach to another. I remember what happens in between beaches, but I just remember it, that’s all. None of it has anything to do with me now. I just remember it—clean but useless.”

			She laid a hand on my shoulder, got up from the sofa, and went to the kitchen. There, she opened the refrigerator, poured herself a glass of wine, and brought it back on the tray with a fresh beer for me.

			“I love this dark time of night before the sun comes up,” she said. “Probably because it’s clean and useless.”

			“But it ends so quickly. The sky lightens, the newspapers and milk get delivered, and the subways start running.”

			She slipped in next to me, pulled the blanket up, and sipped her wine. I filled my glass with the new beer and, holding it, watched the skull on the table still glowing. It cast its pale light on the beer bottle and ashtray and matches on the table. Her head was resting on my shoulder.

			“I watched you coming from the kitchen just now,” I said.

			“How did I do?”

			“Great legs.”

			“You like them?”

			“A lot.”

			She set her glass on the table and kissed me just below the ear.

			“Did you know?” she said, “I love it when you say nice things about me.”



* * *



			—

			As the night gave way to morning, the skull gradually lost its gleam in the wash of sunlight and became a plain old white skull again. Lying in each other’s arms on the sofa, we watched as the world beyond the curtains surrendered its darkness to the morning light. Her hot breath felt moist on my shoulder; her breasts were small and soft.

			She drank the last of her wine and, in the little time left to us, she folded herself against me and fell quietly to sleep. The sun cast its clear light on the roof of the house next door. Birds came to the yard and left. I caught the sound of the TV morning news and heard someone’s car engine starting up somewhere. I wasn’t sleepy anymore. I couldn’t tell how long I had slept, but my need for sleep had vanished and the smell of drink was gone. I eased her head off my shoulder, went into the kitchen, drank a few glasses of water, and smoked a cigarette. Then I closed the door between the kitchen and living room and switched on the audio-cassette player on the kitchen table, listening to an FM broadcast at low volume. I wanted to hear Bob Dylan, but unfortunately, he wasn’t on at the moment. Roger Williams was playing “Autumn Leaves.” It was autumn, after all.

			The kitchen in her house was a lot like my kitchen. It had a sink, an exhaust fan, a refrigerator with freezer, and a gas water heater. It was about the same in terms of size, functionality, wear, and the number of utensils. The one difference from my kitchen was that it had a microwave and not a gas oven. It also had an electric coffee maker. It had a good selection of knives for various purposes, but not all of them were well sharpened. Not many women knew how to sharpen knives. All of the cooking bowls were Pyrex for use in the microwave. The frying pans were well oiled. The garbage strainer in the kitchen sink had been properly cleaned.

			I don’t know why I’m so concerned about other people’s kitchens. I have no intention of sniffing out the details of their lives, but I just naturally notice what’s in their kitchens. Roger Williams’s “Autumn Leaves” ended, to be replaced by the Frank Chacksfield Orchestra’s “Autumn in New York.” I stared blankly at the pots and bowls and spice bottles lined up on the kitchen shelves in the autumn-morning light. The kitchen seemed to be the world itself, like a line from Shakespeare: All the world’s a kitchen.

			A lady deejay came on when the song ended and said, “It’s fall already, isn’t it?” Then she launched into talking about the smell of the first sweater you put on in the fall. There’s a wonderful description of that smell in a John Updike piece, she said. The next song was Woody Herman’s “Early Autumn.” The timer on the kitchen table was showing 7:25. October 3rd, 7:25 a.m. Monday. The sky had such deep clarity, it could have been scooped out with a sharp blade—not a bad day for moving out of life once and for all.

			I boiled a pot of water, steamed the skin off a few tomatoes I found in the refrigerator, minced some garlic and whatever vegetables she had to make a tomato sauce, added tomato puree and Strasbourg sausage, and started it simmering. While it was on the stove, I finely chopped cabbage and green peppers for a salad, got the coffee maker started, and sprinkled a little water on pieces of French bread, which I wrapped in foil and put in the toaster oven. When the meal was ready, I woke her up and cleared the glasses and empty bottles off the living-room table.

			“Mmm, smells great,” she said.

			“Mind if I put my clothes on?” I asked. I have this thing about not getting dressed before the girl. Maybe it’s just good manners in civilized society.

			“No, go right ahead,” she said, taking off her T-shirt. The morning light cast pale shadows on her breasts and belly and caught the fine hairs on her skin in its glow. She stood there for a while, observing her own body.

			“Not bad, wouldn’t you say?” she said.

			“No, not bad at all,” I said.

			“No fat, smooth stomach, skin still firm. For a while, at least,” she said, pressing her hands on the sofa and turning to me. “But then one day, all of a sudden, they’re gone. Isn’t that what happens? Like a thread snapping, they disappear, and you never get them back. I think about it a lot.”

			“Let’s eat,” I said.

			She went into the next room and put on a yellow sweatshirt and faded jeans. I put on my chinos and shirt. Then we sat across from each other at the kitchen table, eating our bread and sausage and salad and drinking coffee.

			“Do you make yourself right at home like that in anybody’s kitchen?” she asked.

			“All kitchens are basically the same,” I said. “You make stuff and eat it. There’s no big difference from one place to another.”

			“Don’t you get tired of living alone?”

			“I don’t know. It’s never crossed my mind. I stayed married for five years, but I can’t remember what it was like anymore. I feel as if I’ve been living alone all along.”

			“You don’t think you’d want to get married again?”

			“I could go either way,” I said. “It makes no difference to me. It’s like a doghouse with front and back doors. It doesn’t make any difference which way you go in or out.”

			She laughed and used a tissue to wipe tomato sauce from the corner of her mouth.

			“You’re the first person I’ve ever met who compared married life to a doghouse.”

			When we were through eating, I warmed up the coffee in the pot and poured a cup for each of us.

			“That was a delicious tomato sauce,” she said.

			“I could have made a better one if I had had bay leaves and oregano,” I said. “It could have simmered another ten minutes, too.”

			“It was really good, though. This is the most elaborate breakfast I’ve had in quite a while,” she said. “What are your plans for the day?”

			I looked at my watch: 8:30.

			“I’ll be leaving here at nine,” I said. “Let’s go to a park and drink beer in the sun. I’ll bring you wherever you want to go at ten thirty, and then I’ll get going. What’re you planning to do?”

			“I’ll come home, do some laundry, clean the house, and hang around alone, thinking about the sex we just had. Not a bad plan, don’t you think?”

			“Not bad at all,” I said. No, it really was not a bad plan.

			“Let me tell you,” she added, “I don’t jump into bed with just anybody.”

			“I know,” I said.

			She sang in the shower while I washed dishes in the kitchen sink. I used a low-sudsing, vegetable-oil-based dishwashing liquid on the plates and pots, toweled them off, and lined them up on the kitchen table. Then I washed my hands and borrowed a toothbrush she had in the kitchen to brush my teeth, after which I went into the bathroom and asked if she had any shaving equipment.

			“Open the right side of the medicine cabinet. His old stuff should be on the top shelf,” she said.

			In there, to be sure, I found a can of Gillette lemon-and-lime shaving cream and a Schick razor. The can felt half-empty, and the nozzle was caked with dried white foam. Death leaves cans of shaving cream half-used.

			“Got it?” she asked.

			“Got it,” I said. Then I took the razor and shaving cream and a fresh towel back to the kitchen, ran hot water, and shaved. I washed the razor in the bathroom washbasin when I was through with it. My whiskers and the dead man’s whiskers mixed together and sank to the bottom of the water in the basin.

			While she was dressing, I read the morning paper on the living-room sofa. A taxi driver had a heart attack and rammed into the pillar of a footbridge and died. Both his passengers were seriously injured—a thirty-two-year-old woman and her four-year-old daughter. Two members of a city council somewhere died from tainted fried oysters in a box lunch. The minister of foreign affairs expressed dismay at U.S. high interest rates. A conference of U.S. bankers discussed the interest on loans to South and Central American countries. The Peruvian finance minister decried the U.S.’s economic invasion of South America. The West German foreign-affairs minister demanded a correction of the trade imbalance with Japan. Syria denounced Israel and Israel denounced Syria. The advice column featured an eighteen-year-old son’s physical abuse of his father. The paper contained nothing that would be of use to me in my final hours.

			She stood in front of a mirror in beige cotton slacks and a brown checked open-collared blouse, brushing her hair. I tied my tie and put on my blazer.

			“What are you going to do with the unicorn skull?” she asked.

			“Give it to you,” I said. “You can display it somewhere.”

			“The top of the TV?”

			I picked up the skull, which by then had lost its glow, carried it to the corner of the living room, and set it on the TV.

			“What do you think?” she asked.

			“Not bad,” I said.

			“Think it’ll shine again?”

			“For sure,” I said and took her in my arms once more, etching her warmth into my brain.





38


			End of the World


			Escape


			With daybreak, the light of the skulls began to fade. When the dull gray morning light from the small skylight near the stacks’ ceiling began to illuminate the walls, the skulls’ lights gradually lost their luster and departed one by one with their deep, dark memories.

			Before the skulls’ last light could fade completely, I ran my fingers over some of them and let their warmth sink in. I could not be sure what fraction of the total light I had been able to read in the course of the night. There were simply too many skulls to read in too little time. I let my fingers go on searching through each one as carefully as possible without worrying too much about the time. I could clearly sense the presence of her heart in my fingertips with each passing moment. That was enough for me. It was not a question of number or volume or proportion. No amount of exertion would enable one to read every last bit of a person’s heart. Her heart was in there for certain, and I could feel it. What more could I ask?

			When I returned the last skull to its shelf, I sank to the floor and leaned against the wall. I couldn’t tell what the weather outside was like from the skylight high overhead. The quality of the light told me only that it was dark and cloudy. Like a soft liquid, the pale darkness drifted through the stacks, and the skulls sank once again into a deep sleep. I closed my eyes and rested my head in the dawn chill. I touched my cheeks to find that my fingers still retained something of the light’s warmth.

			I sat still in the corner of the stacks until the silence and chill quieted my overwrought heart. My only sense of time was rambling and irregular. The color of the light coming in through the window never changed, and the shadows remained in place. When it had sunk into me, I could feel her heart circulating through my body, commingling with everything I had inside, and penetrating every last corner of myself. Surely it would take me a very long time to give it a somewhat clearer form, and it would take me still longer to transmit it to her until it pervaded her completely. However long it might take, though, and however imperfect its form might be, I felt I would eventually be able to give her heart to her, and she would be able, on her own, to reassemble it in a more nearly perfect form.

			I got up from the floor and walked out of the stacks. She was sitting alone at the reading-room table, waiting for me. In the faint light of dawn, she appeared to have a somewhat vaguer, thinner outline than usual. The night had been a long one for both of us. When she saw me come in, she stood without a word and set the coffeepot on the stove. While it was warming, I washed my hands at the sink in back and dried them with a towel. Then I sat by the stove to warm myself.

			“You must be tired,” she said.

			I gave her a nod in reply. My body felt heavy, like a lump of mud. I could barely lift my hands. I had been reading old dreams for twelve hours nonstop, though the fatigue had not sunk into my heart. As she had told me the first day of my dreamreading, no matter how physically tired I might become, I must not let it penetrate to my heart.

			“You should have gone home to rest,” I said. “You didn’t have to stay here.”

			She poured a cup of coffee and handed it to me.

			“As long as you’re here, I’ll be here.”

			“Is that the rule?”

			“It is my rule,” she said with a smile. “And besides, that was my heart you were reading. I couldn’t just go off and leave it here, could I?”

			I nodded and took a drink of coffee. The old wall clock was showing 8:15.

			“Shall I prepare breakfast?” she asked.

			“No need,” I said.

			“But you haven’t had anything to eat since yesterday.”

			“I’m not hungry. I’d rather get some good, sound sleep right now. Can you wake me at two thirty? Do you mind keeping an eye on me while I sleep?”

			“Sure, if that’s what you want,” she said with a sweet smile.

			“I want that more than anything,” I said.

			She brought two blankets from the back and wrapped them around me. Her hair brushed my cheek as it had sometime before. I closed my eyes and listened to the crackling of the coal nearby. Her hand rested on my shoulder.

			“How long do you think the winter will go on?” I asked.

			“I don’t know,” she replied. “Nobody knows when the winter will end. But I’m pretty sure it won’t last much longer. This might be the last big snowfall.”

			I reached toward her and caressed her cheek. She closed her eyes and savored the warmth remaining in my fingers.

			“This is the warmth from my own light, isn’t it?”

			“What does it feel like?” I asked.

			“Like the light of spring,” she said.

			“I think I can transmit your heart to you,” I said. “It might take me a while, but if you keep believing in me, I’m sure I’ll be able to do it at some point.”

			“Yes, I know you will,” she said, covering my eyes with the palm of her hand. “Now go to sleep.”

			Which is what I did.



* * *



			—

			She woke me at 2:30 exactly. I got up and put on my coat and scarf and gloves and hat. All the while, she sipped her coffee, saying nothing. My formerly snow-laden coat was now warm and dry from having hung so long by the stove.

			“Will you keep the concertina for me?” I asked.

			She nodded and picked the instrument up from the table, holding on to it for a while as if testing its weight before she put it down again.

			“Don’t worry,” she said with another nod. “I’ll take good care of it.”



* * *



			—

			Outside, I found a mere dusting of snow coming down, and the wind had died. The all-night blizzard seemed to have ended some hours earlier, but the thick gray overcast hung as low as ever in the sky, suggesting another onslaught for the town. This was just a momentary lull.

			By the time I was crossing West Bridge headed north, I could see the usual gray smoke starting to billow up beyond the wall. It had started with uncertain white puffs, changing soon afterward to the dark clouds that rise from burning masses of animal flesh. Gatekeeper must be in Apple Wood. I hurried toward his gatehouse, amazed at the clarity of the footprints I was leaving in the nearly knee-high snow. The town was hushed, as if its every sound were being absorbed by the snow. There was no wind, and no birds were chirping. Only the spikes of my boots cut into the snow with an oddly exaggerated sound.

			The gatehouse was deserted and had its usual sour smell. The fire in the stove had gone out, but its warmth still lingered in the room. The table was littered with dirty dishes and Gatekeeper’s pipe. White-glinting adzes and hatchets lined the wall. As I stood there surveying the room, I was overcome by the illusion that, at any moment, Gatekeeper would silently steal up behind me and clap his big hand on my shoulder. I couldn’t escape the feeling that everything here—the rows of blades, the kettle, the pipe—was silently denouncing my betrayal.

			I reached out carefully so as to avoid the gruesome row of blades and snatched the bunch of keys from where it was hanging on the wall. Clutching it tightly, I went out through the back door into Shadow Square. The white blanket of snow on the square was unmarked by footprints. Only the single black elm tree towered in the center. The space gave me a momentary impression that it was sacred and inviolable, not to be sullied by human footsteps. It looked as though it were entirely contained within a balanced stillness, immersing itself in unperturbable slumber. The wind had carved lovely patterns across the snow, and the elm held its bent, snow-clumped arms out into space, unmoving. The snowfall had nearly ended. An occasional quiet puff of wind was all that swept through the space. I felt they would never forget that I was the one who had tramped through this peaceful moment of rest in filthy shoes.

			But there was no time for hesitation. I could no longer turn back. With numb fingers, I tried putting each of the four big keys in the bunch into the keyhole by turns. None of them fit. I felt my armpits oozing with cold sweat and tried picturing the time when Gatekeeper had unlocked the iron gate to Shadow Square. He had had four keys then, too, for sure. I had counted them. One of these four keys should absolutely fit.

			I put the keys back in my pocket and rubbed my hands together until they were warm enough. Then I tried each of the keys again, one after another. The third key slipped all the way in and made a loud, dry clunk when I turned it. The sharp metallic sound echoed across the deserted square and could well have been overheard by every last person in the town. I left the key in the hole and paused to listen but heard no one coming—no footsteps or voices. I pushed the heavy iron gate open a crack and slipped inside, shutting it again behind me as quietly as possible.

			The snow in the square was so soft and fluffy it all but swallowed my feet. The crunch underfoot could have been the sound of a giant creature carefully chewing its prey. I left two straight lines of footprints as I crossed the square past the snow-laden bench. The branches of the elm tree looked down at me menacingly. From somewhere came the sharp cry of a bird.

			The air in the shelter was freezing cold, worse than the outside. I pulled the door open and climbed down the ladder.

			My shadow was seated on the cellar bed, waiting for me.

			“I thought you’d never come,” he said, expelling white puffs of breath.

			“I promised,” I said. “I always keep my promises. Now, let’s get going. It stinks in here.”

			“I can’t climb the ladder,” my shadow said with a sigh. “I gave it a try before, couldn’t do it. I’m even weaker than I thought. Funny, faking it, I couldn’t tell how weak I really was. Last night was especially bad—the chill really got my bones.”

			“I’ll pull you up.”

			He shook his head. “And then what? I can’t run. I’ll never make it to the escape opening. Looks like I’m finished.”

			“You’re the one who started this. You can’t give up now,” I said. “I’ll carry you on my back. We’ve got to get out of here and live, no matter what.”

			My shadow looked at me with sunken eyes.

			“If you say so, I’ll do my best, of course,” he said. “It’s going to be tough, though, running through the snow with me on your back.”

			I nodded. “I never thought it’d be easy.”



* * *



			—

			 				I hauled my limp, exhausted shadow up the ladder and gave him my shoulder to lean on as we crossed Shadow Square. The cold black wall that towered on our left stared down silently at us and our footprints. I saw the branches of the elm tree dropping their clumps of snow as if unable to bear the weight any longer and then springing up in reaction.

			“I can hardly feel my legs,” my shadow said. “I thought I was doing plenty of exercise so I wouldn’t lose all my strength from being bedridden, but it was such a cramped little room, you know…”

			I practically dragged my shadow out of the square and into the gatehouse, where I made sure to return the bunch of keys to their place on the wall. If we were lucky, Gatekeeper might not realize for a while that we had escaped.

			“Which way should we go?” I asked my shadow, who stood by the cold stove, shivering.

			“We’re going to Southern Pool,” he said.

			“Southern Pool?” I shot back. “Why? What could possibly be there?”

			“Southern Pool, that’s what’s there. We escape by diving in. We might catch colds at this time of year, but that’s a small price to pay considering the position we’re in.”

			“But that pool has such a strong current at the bottom, the second we dive in, we’ll be sucked under and drown.”

			“No we won’t,” my shadow said, coughing and shivering. “It’s the only way out. I’ve considered every possibility. Southern Pool is it. I don’t blame you for being nervous, but you have to trust me. I’m not about to do anything crazy. My life is on the line—the only one I’ve got. I’ll explain it all to you on the way there. Gatekeeper will be back in another hour or hour and a half. Right away, he’ll see I’m gone and come after me. We can’t waste any more time here.”

			There was no sign of anybody outside the gatehouse—just two sets of footprints in the snow: mine when I came in and Gatekeeper’s when he went out to the gate. The tracks of his cart were also there. I hoisted my shadow onto my back. Emaciated, he felt light, but he would still be a considerable burden when it came to climbing hills with him on top of me. I had become fully accustomed to the ease of life without a shadow, so I could not be sure I would be able to bear the weight.

			“It’s a long way to Southern Pool,” I said. “We have to pass the east side of West Hill, circle South Hill, and take the road through the thicket.”

			“Think you can manage it?”

			“I’ve come this far. All I can do is go for it.”

			I headed east down the snow-covered road, following the clear footprints I had made earlier and feeling as if I were passing my past self going the other way. The only other footprints were tiny ones left by some beasts. I looked back to see a thick, straight column of gray smoke still rising beyond the wall like an ominous tower, the spire of which was being swallowed by the clouds. Judging from the thickness of the smoke, Gatekeeper was burning a large number of beasts. The massive overnight snowfall must have killed more of them than ever before. That meant it would take him a long time to burn them all, which would significantly delay his pursuit of us. I couldn’t help feeling that the beasts were aiding us in our plan through their quiet deaths.

			On the other hand, the deep snow was hampering our progress. Hard snow stuck between the spikes of my boots, weighing them down and making me slip. I felt sorry I hadn’t found snowshoes or cross-country skis somewhere. Such a snowy place was bound to have such things. I might have even found them in Gatekeeper’s storeroom. He had every kind of equipment in there. It was too late now, though, to go back. I had almost reached West Bridge, and turning back would cost too much time. The more I walked, the hotter and sweatier I became.

			My shadow looked back and said, “Anybody could tell where we’re headed from these footprints you’re leaving.”

			Trudging through the snow, I imagined Gatekeeper coming after us, charging along like a demon possessed. He was far stronger than I was and had no one riding on his back. He would probably be wearing equipment, too, made for walking in the snow. I had to cover as much distance as possible before he came back. Otherwise, it would be all over.

			I pictured my librarian sitting by the stove, waiting for me. The concertina lay on the table, the fire in the stove flared up red, and the pot on the stove was steaming. I thought about the touch of her hair against my cheek and her hand on my shoulder. I couldn’t let my shadow die here. If Gatekeeper were to catch us, my shadow would end up dying in that cellar. I forged ahead with every ounce of strength I could muster, looking back now and then to make sure the gray smoke was still billowing up beyond the wall.

			On the road, we passed a lot of beasts coming in the other direction, roaming in search of anything edible they could manage to discover in the thickly snow-covered landscape. Their deep blue eyes fixed on us as I trudged past them, expelling clouds of white breath, with the shadow on my back. They seemed to understand exactly what we were doing out here.

			When the uphill climb began, I started running out of breath and staggering in the snow with the weight of my shadow. It occurred to me I hadn’t had any decent exercise for a very long time. My clouds of breath grew thicker, and a newly restarted snow flurry sent melting flakes into my eyes.

			“How are you doing down there?” my shadow called out. “Take a break?”

			“Sorry, but let me rest for five minutes. That should be enough for me to recover.”

			“Don’t worry about it,” he said. “It’s my fault I can’t run. Rest as long as you need. I guess I’m forcing you to do all this.”

			“But it’s for me, too, isn’t it?”

			“I’d say so,” my shadow said.

			I lowered him to the ground, knelt down in the snow, and caught my breath. I was so hot, I couldn’t even feel the cold of the snow. Both legs had gone stiff as stone from top to bottom.

			“But sometimes, I’m not so sure I’m doing the right thing,” my shadow said. “Maybe if I had just let myself die quietly without telling you, you could have gone on living happily here in your own way, free of anxiety.”

			“Maybe so,” I said.

			“Which means it’s my fault for preventing you from doing that.”

			“But it was something I needed to know about,” I said.

			My shadow nodded. Then he looked up and glanced at the gray smoke rising from the direction of Apple Wood.

			“At that rate, it’ll take Gatekeeper a lot longer to finish burning beasts,” he said. “And we only have a little longer to climb. Then we’ll just have to walk around the back of South Hill, and once we get that far, we can relax. He won’t be able to catch up with us.”

			My shadow scooped up a handful of soft snow and scattered it on the ground.

			“At first, intuition was all that told me the town had to have a hidden exit,” he said. “But I became sure of it soon enough. Because the town is perfect, and perfection inevitably contains all possibilities. In that sense, you can’t even call this place a town. It’s more fluid and all-inclusive than that. Even as it exhibits all possibilities, it constantly changes shape and maintains its perfection. Finally, this is by no means a fixed and finished world. It’s a moving finished world. Which is why, if I want there to be an escape exit, there’s an escape exit. Do you understand what I’m saying?”

			“Very well,” I said. “I became aware of that just yesterday—that this is a world of possibilities. Anything and everything is here, and anything and everything is not here.”

			Sitting on the snow, my shadow looked straight at me for a while. Then he nodded silently a few times. Little by little, the snowfall was increasing in intensity. Another big one was approaching the town, it seemed.

			“Assuming there has to be a way out, what’s left is a process of elimination,” my shadow went on. “The first thing to eliminate is the gate. Even assuming we could get out that way, Gatekeeper would catch us in a heartbeat. He knows every last detail of that area—every branch of every tree. Besides, the gate is the first place anyone would think of who was planning to escape, and exits shouldn’t be that easy to think of. The wall is no good. And the eastern gate is no good, all sealed up the way it is. The river flows in through an opening that’s covered by a thick iron grate. You could never get out through there. The only place left is Southern Pool. It leaves the town with the river.”

			“Are you absolutely sure?”

			“Absolutely. My instinct tells me that. All the other exits are sealed tight, but Southern Pool is the one place that’s been left unguarded, without any sort of enclosure. Strange, don’t you think? They’ve surrounded it with fear. If we can overcome that fear, we can beat the town.”

			“When did you become aware of that?”

			“The first time I saw this river. Gatekeeper took me as far as West Bridge one time. As soon as I saw it, I knew: this river has nothing malicious about it. Its water is full of life. If we follow it and entrust ourselves to it, you and I can get out of this town and go back where we can live out our lives the way we were meant to. Do you believe what I’m telling you?”

			“I can believe it,” I said. “I can believe what you’re telling me. The river probably does connect to that place—to the world we left behind. I can remember things from that world. They’ve been coming back to me bit by bit—the air, the sounds, the light. Things like that. A song reminded me.”

			“I don’t know if that world is such a great one,” my shadow said. “But at least it’s the world we were meant to live in. It has good things about it and bad things, too. And things that are neither good nor bad. You were born there, and you’ll die there. And when you die, that’ll be the end of me, too. That’s the most natural thing.”

			“You’re probably right,” I said.

			The two of us looked down at the town again. The clock tower, the river, the bridges, the wall, and the smoke: everything was hidden by the mass of snow coming down. All we could see was the giant pillar of snow pouring down on the earth from the sky like a waterfall.

			“Why don’t we go on ahead if you’re ready?” my shadow said. “With all this snow coming down, Gatekeeper might have to give up burning beasts for the day and come back early.”

			I nodded and stood up, brushing the accumulated snow from the brim of my hat.





39


			Hard-Boiled Wonderland


			Popcorn, Lord Jim, Extinction


			We stopped at a liquor store on the way to the park and bought some canned beer. I asked her what brand she preferred. Anything would do, she said, as long as it had a head and tasted like beer. I was pretty much of the same opinion. Drinks were not that big a deal under an early-October sky so clear it could have been made that morning: any brew would be fine as long as it had a head and tasted like beer.

			I had money to spare, though, so I bought a six-pack of imported beer. The gold cans of Miller High Life sparkled like the autumn sun. Duke Ellington was also perfect for the October morning. On the other hand, Duke Ellington would probably be perfect for New Year’s Eve in Antarctica, too.

			Driving down the road, I whistled along with Lawrence Brown’s unique trombone solo on “Do Nothing Till You Hear from Me.” Then Johnny Hodges took his solo on “Sophisticated Lady.”

			I parked the car by Hibiya Park, and we stretched out on the lawn, where we started our first two cans of beer. The Monday-morning park was as quiet and empty as the deck of an aircraft carrier after all the planes had taken off. The only thing there was a wandering flock of pigeons doing what looked like warm-up exercises on the grass.

			“Not a cloud in the sky,” I said.

			“There’s one,” she said, pointing just above Hibiya Hall. She was right: there was exactly one cloud. It looked like a bit of cotton fuzz stuck on the tip of a camphor-tree branch.

			“That one hardly counts,” I said.

			She stared at the cloud for a while, shading her eyes with one hand. “You’re right,” she said. “It’s puny.”

			We looked at the little scrap of cloud for a long time. Then I pulled open my second can of beer.

			“Why did you get divorced?” she asked.

			“Simple. She left me one summer five or six years ago. Never came back.”

			“And you haven’t seen her since then?”

			“Nope,” I said, took a mouthful of beer, and slowly drank it down. “No reason to.”

			“Wasn’t married life working for you?”

			“Our married life was going great,” I said, looking at the can of beer in my hand. “But that doesn’t have a lot to do with the essence of things. You can sleep in the same bed with another person and still be alone when you close your eyes. Know what I mean?”

			“Yes, I think I do.”

			“You can’t just lump all people into simple types, but I do think you can divide the kinds of vision they possess into two—a comprehensive vision and a limited vision. I tend to be the type of person who lives within a limited vision. Whether my limitations are justifiable or not doesn’t really matter: the lines are there because they have to be somewhere. Not that everyone thinks that way.”

			“Even people who do think that way try their best to push the lines further out, don’t they?”

			“Maybe so. But not me. There’s no reason everybody has to listen to music in stereo. Just because you can hear the violins from the left speaker and the bass fiddles from the right speaker, that doesn’t make the musical experience any deeper. All it does is make the means for evoking the image more complex.”

			“Aren’t you being a little too narrow-minded?”

			“She used to say the same thing.”

			“Your wife?”

			“Uh-huh,” I said. “If the theme’s too clear, there’s not enough flexibility. Have another beer?”

			“Thanks,” she said.

			I pulled the tab out of a fourth Miller High Life and handed the can to her.

			“What do you think about your own life?” she asked. She stared hard at the opening in the top of the can without bringing it to her lips.

			“Ever read The Brothers Karamazov?” I asked.

			“Just once,” she said. “A long time ago.”

			“You ought to read it again. It’s full of interesting stuff. Near the end, Alyosha says to a young student named Kolya Krasotkin, ‘You know, Kolya, you’re going to be a very unhappy person, but life as a whole you should always bless.’ ”

			I finished my second can of beer and, after some hesitation, opened my third.

			“Alyosha understands a lot of things,” I said, “but the first time I read that, I had my doubts. Was it possible to bless an unhappy life?”

			“Which is why you put limits on life?”

			“Maybe so,” I said. “I’m the one who should have been beaten to death on the bus with an iron vase instead of your husband. That would have been the perfect death for me, I’m sure—direct, fragmentary, imagistically complete—and no time to think.”

			Lying on the grass, I glanced up at the spot where the cloud had been. It wasn’t there anymore. The leaves of the camphor tree had hidden it.

			“Tell me,” she said, “is there any chance I could get into your limited vision?”

			“Anybody can get into it, and anybody can get out of it,” I said. “That’s the great thing about a limited vision. All you have to do is wipe your feet before you go in and close the door when you leave, like everybody else.”

			She smiled and stood up, brushing the grass from her cotton slacks. “Time for me to go,” she said. “You, too?”

			I looked at my watch: 10:22.

			“I’ll drive you home,” I said.

			“That’s okay,” she said. “I’m going to do a little shopping at a Ginza department store down the street and take the subway back alone. Better that way.”

			“All right, we’ll say goodbye here. I’m going to stick around for a while, it’s so nice.”

			“Thanks for the nail clipper.”

			“You’re welcome,” I said.

			“Will you call me when you get back?”

			“I’ll come to the library,” I said. “I like watching people work.”

			“Goodbye, then,” she said.



* * *



			—

			 				Like Joseph Cotten in The Third Man, I kept my eyes fixed on her as she walked away down the park’s straight path. When she vanished beneath the trees, I started watching the pigeons. Each bird had its own slightly different way of walking. When a well-dressed woman with a little girl showed up and started scattering popcorn on the grass, all the pigeons around me flew over to them. The girl was maybe three or four years old, and like all such little girls, she ran toward the birds with her arms wide open, trying to hug them. They were not about to let themselves be hugged, of course. Pigeons have their own modest way of staying alive. The well-dressed mother tossed me one quick glance and avoided looking at me after that. Anyone lying in the park on a Monday morning with five empty beer cans lined up on the grass could not be a decent person.

			I closed my eyes and called to mind the names of the three Karamazov brothers—Mitya, Ivan, Alyosha—and the bastard half brother Smerdyakov. How many people were there who could name all the Karamazov brothers?

			Eyes locked on the sky, I felt like a little boat floating on a vast, open sea—just floating there, still, no wind, no waves. There’s something peculiar about a small boat floating on a wide sea. Joseph Conrad said that. The shipwreck scene in Lord Jim.

			The sky was deep, and it shone as brightly as an established concept that one could not possibly doubt. When you’re looking at it from the surface of the earth, the sky can feel as if it were the sum total of all existence. The sea is the same. Looking at it day after day, you can begin to feel that the sea is the only thing in the world. Joseph Conrad probably had the same thought I did. There surely is something peculiar about a small boat that has been separated from the fictional construct “ship” and hurled onto an ocean that stretches as far as the eye can see, and no one can escape that peculiarity.

			Lying on the grass, I drank the last can of beer, smoked a cigarette, and swept my mind free of literary reflections. I had to get a little more realistic. I only had an hour and a bit left.

			I stood up, gathered the empty cans in my arms, and threw them in a trash bin. Then I took the credit cards out of my wallet and burnt them in an ash receptacle. The well-dressed mother glanced at me again. Decent people didn’t burn credit cards in parks on Monday mornings. I burnt the American Express card first and then the Visa. They flared up so nicely, I was tempted to burn my Paul Stuart necktie as well but thought better of it. It would only attract attention, and there was finally no need.

			Next, I bought ten bags of popcorn at a kiosk, scattered the contents of nine of them on the ground for the pigeons, and sat on a bench, eating the last bag myself. So many pigeons swarmed onto the popcorn, it reminded me of a documentary on the October Revolution. I joined them in their popcorn feast. This was my first popcorn in ages, and it tasted great.

			The well-dressed mother and her little daughter were looking at the park’s big fountain. The mother was about my age. She reminded me of that high-school classmate of mine who had married a revolutionary, given birth to two children, and disappeared. She couldn’t even take kids to a park anymore. I didn’t know how she felt about that, of course, but I sensed I might have something in common with her where the disappearance of my life was concerned. She might—probably would—reject the proposition that we shared anything at all. We hadn’t seen each other for almost twenty years, during which a ton of things had happened. The situations we found ourselves in were totally different, and our ideas were different, too. We were the same in leaving life behind, but she had left hers of her own free will, whereas in my case, somebody had yanked the sheets off the bed while I was sleeping and carried them away.

			She’d probably chew me out for that, I felt. “What did you ever choose?” she’d say. And she’d be right. I hadn’t chosen any of this. If I had chosen anything of my own free will, it was to have forgiven the Doctor and not to have slept with his granddaughter. That was all. But what good would either of those do me? Would she appreciate in such feeble choices a role that I myself had played in my own extinction?

			I didn’t know the answer to that. Almost twenty long years now separated the two of us. The standard by which she distinguished between what she valued and what she didn’t value lay outside the framework of my imagination.

			Almost nothing was left inside my framework anymore. All I could see was the pigeons, the fountain, the lawn, and the mother with her little girl. As I kept watch on the scene, though, it occurred to me for the first time in the past couple of days that I didn’t want to vanish from this world. It didn’t matter to me what world I’d be going to next. I didn’t care if, say, 93 percent of my life’s radiance had been used up in its thirty-five-year-long first half. I wanted to take good care of the remaining 7 percent as I went on watching what happened to this world as long as possible. I wasn’t sure why, but doing that seemed like a responsibility that had been given to me. From some point, I had certainly lived in a way that had twisted my life out of shape, and I had had my own kinds of reasons for doing so. Even if I couldn’t hope to make anyone else understand why, I had done what I had to do.

			But still, I didn’t want simply to vanish and leave this twisted life of mine behind. I had a duty to see it through to the bitter end. If I didn’t do that, I’d be losing sight of fairness to my own self. It was out of the question for me to just abandon my life.

			Even if my disappearance would not make anyone sad or open an empty space in anyone’s heart or even be noticed by much of anyone, it was a problem for me. Certainly, I had already lost all too many things, to the point where I felt I had nothing left to lose besides me myself. Inside me, though, there still remained the afterglow of the lost things like a kind of sediment, and that was what had kept me alive this long.

			I didn’t want to vanish from this world. Whenever I closed my eyes, I could clearly feel my heart shake. Beyond mere sadness or loneliness, it was a big, deep heaving that shook the very foundations of my own existence. The heaving went on and on. I set my elbows on the bench’s backrest to brace myself against it. No one came to help me. No one could possibly have saved me, just as I was incapable of saving anyone else.

			I wanted to cry, to raise my voice in lamentation, but that was impossible. I was too old and too experienced for tears. There’s such a thing in the world as a sadness beyond tears—a sadness you can’t explain to anybody or, even if you managed to explain it, a sadness you can’t get them to understand. It can’t be changed into any other form: it just piles up silently in the heart like snow on a windless night.

			I tried when I was young to put that sadness into words, but I gave up soon enough, sensing that no words could convey it to anyone, not even to myself. I shut down my words that way, and shut down my heart as well. Deep sadness was a thing that could not even take the form of tears.

			I wanted another cigarette, but my pack of Seven Stars was gone. All I had in my pocket was a book of matches, only three of which remained. I struck each of them in turn and dropped them on the ground.

			When I closed my eyes again, the heaving was gone. In my head there was nothing but a silent, dustlike suspension. Alone, I looked at the dust floating there for a long time. It neither rose nor sank but remained where it was, in utter stillness. I pursed my lips slightly and blew, but it wouldn’t move. Not even a driving wind could sweep the dust away.

			Next, I thought about the librarian girlfriend I had just parted with and about her velvet dress and stockings and slip piled on the floor. Were they still there, not picked up, just lying on the floor as if they were the girl herself? Had I succeeded in treating her fairly? No, never mind. Who wanted fairness anyway? No one at all besides me. But how much meaning could there be in a life that has lost fairness? In the same way I was fond of her, I was fond of the dress and underclothes she had shed onto the floor. Was that one form of my fairness?

			Fairness is an idea that holds true only in a highly limited world, but it extends to every phase of that world—from snails to hardware-store counters to married life. Even if no one wanted such a thing, it was all I could give. In that sense, fairness is like love—in the mismatch between what is offered and what is wanted, which is precisely why so many things had passed me by or passed through me.

			I probably should regret the life I had lived. This was another form of fairness. But I could not regret anything. Even if everything blew past me like the wind and left me behind, this, too, was something I myself had wished for. And the only thing left to me was the white dust floating in my head.



* * *



			—

			I bought a pack of cigarettes and matches at the park kiosk, and, as long as I was up, I tried calling my apartment one more time from a public phone. I wasn’t expecting anyone to answer, but I figured it wasn’t a bad idea to call my own apartment at the end of my life. I had a clear mental image of the phone sitting there ringing.

			Much to my surprise, though, someone lifted the receiver at the third ring and said “Hello.” It was the fat girl in the pink suit.

			“You’re still there?” I asked in amazement.

			“No no no,” she said. “I’ve been out and back. I couldn’t just hang around here all this time. I came back to read the rest of the novel I was reading.”

			“The Balzac?”

			“Yes, of course. It’s such an interesting book! You can feel something like the power of fate in it.”

			“So, then,” I said, “did you manage to save your grandfather from that place?”

			“Of course—it was so easy! The water had all receded and it was my second time, so I knew the way. And I made sure to buy two subway tickets on the way in. My grandfather was in great shape. He sends his best to you.”

			“Thanks,” I said. “So, what’s up with him?”

			“He left for Finland. He’s going to set up a lab there. Japan has too many distractions—he can’t concentrate on his research. Finland is nice and quiet, and they have reindeer and stuff.”

			“You didn’t go with him?”

			“I decided to stay here and live in your place.”

			“My place?”

			“Yes, I like it a lot. I’ll install a door and buy a refrigerator and a video recorder and things. You know—to take the place of the broken stuff. Do you mind if I change the bedspread and sheets and curtains to pink?”

			“Not at all.”

			“And take a newspaper? For the TV listings.”

			“Fine,” I said. “It could be dangerous to stay there, though. System guys or Semiotecs might come around.”

			“Oh, I’m not afraid of them,” she said. “They want you or my grandfather, not me. A couple of strange guys—a big one and a little one—came before, but I chased them away.”

			“How did you do that?”

			“With a pistol. I shot the big guy’s ear off—broke his eardrum, I’m sure. It was no big deal.”

			“Didn’t that cause an uproar in the apartment house—I mean, shooting off a pistol there?”

			“No, not at all,” she said. “It was just one shot. People probably thought it was a car backfiring. A lot of shots would have been more of a problem, but I’m good. One shot was all I needed.”

			“Wow,” I said.

			“On another matter, I’m thinking of freezing you once your consciousness is gone. What do you think?”

			“Do whatever you like. I’m not going to know anything about it. I’m leaving for Harumi Pier soon. You can collect me there. I’ll be in a white Carina 1800 GT twin-cam turbo. I can’t explain why I’ll be in that particular model, but a Bob Dylan tape’ll be playing on the stereo.”

			“Bob Dylan tape? What’s that?”

			“On a rainy day—” I started to explain but thought better of it. “He’s a singer with a husky voice.”

			“If I freeze you, my grandfather might find some new way to bring you back, don’t you think? Don’t get your hopes up, but at least there’s a possibility.”

			“I can’t get my hopes up if I’m unconscious,” I pointed out to her. “So, are you the one who’s going to freeze me?”

			“Don’t worry, it’s a specialty of mine. I’ve frozen plenty of live dogs and cats and stuff in animal experiments. I’ll freeze you right and hide you where no one can find you,” she said. “So, if it all works out and your consciousness comes back, will you sleep with me?”

			“Of course,” I said, “if you still want to sleep with me at that point.”

			“You’ll do it the right way?”

			“Using every technique at my disposal,” I said. “I don’t know how many years from now it’s going to be, though.”

			“But at least I won’t be seventeen anymore,” she said.

			“People get older,” I said, “even in the deep freeze.”

			“Be well,” she said.

			“You, too,” I said. “I’m glad I got to talk to you. I feel a little better now.”

			“Because you found out you might be able to come back to this world? I don’t really know if that’s going to be possible, you know.”

			“No, that’s not it. Of course, I’m glad to know about the possibility, but that’s not what I’m talking about. I’m just glad I got a chance to talk to you again—to hear your voice, to find out what you’re doing.”

			“Want to talk longer?”

			“No, this’ll do. I don’t have much time left.”

			“You know,” she said, “don’t be afraid. Even if you’re lost forever, I’ll remember you until the day I die. You won’t be lost from my heart. Don’t forget that one thing.”

			“I won’t forget,” I said, and hung up.

			At eleven o’clock, I did one last pee at a nearby toilet and left the park. I started the car and drove toward the harbor, thinking various thoughts about what it might be like to be frozen. The streets of Ginza were full of men in business suits. Waiting for a traffic signal to change, I looked for my library girl in the crowd. She was supposed to be shopping here. Unfortunately, I caught no sight of her, just strangers passing by.

			When I got to the harbor, I parked next to a deserted warehouse and took a smoke, listening to the Bob Dylan tape. I reclined the seat, put both feet up on the steering wheel, and took a few calm breaths. I felt like another beer, but I had nothing left. She and I had drunk all six cans. The sun shone through the windshield, enveloping me in its light. When I closed my eyes, I could feel its warmth on my eyelids. I was strangely moved to think that the sunlight had made its long journey to this small planet, where it used a tiny fraction of its energy to warm my eyelids for me. Even an eyelid had its place in the cosmic order. Perhaps I had gained some small understanding of Alyosha Karamazov’s feeling: to a limited life, limited blessings are given.

			While I was at it, I bestowed what blessings I could upon the Doctor, his fat granddaughter, and my library girl. I didn’t know whether I had the right to bestow blessings on other people or not, but either way, since I would soon cease to exist, I had no need to fear that someone would someday question me on my responsibilities in the matter. I added the Police-and-reggae taxi driver to my list of the blessed. He had let us two mud-smeared passengers ride in his cab. There was nothing preventing me from adding him to the list—no reason at all. Even now, he was probably tearing around the city, blasting rock on his boom box and looking for young passengers to pick up.

			I could see the ocean straight ahead and an old freighter floating with its waterline high after having unloaded its cargo. Seagulls perched here and there like white smears on the scene. Bob Dylan was singing “Blowin’ in the Wind.” Listening to the song, I thought about snails and nail clippers and shaving cream and steamed sea bass with almond garnish. The world was full of revelations, and they took all forms.

			The early-autumn sun glinted on the sea, finely scattered over the undulating surface as if someone had smashed a huge mirror into such tiny bits that no one could put them together again, not even all the king’s horses and all the king’s men.

			Dylan’s singing automatically made me think of the girl in the car-rental office. Yes, I had to give her my blessing as well—in return for the good impression she had given me. No way could I exclude her from the list.

			I pictured the outfit she had been wearing—green blazer reminiscent of the grass in an early-season baseball field, white blouse, black bow tie. It was probably the rental company’s uniform. Otherwise, who would wear a green blazer, white blouse, and black bow tie? She listened to old Bob Dylan songs and thought about the rain.

			I gave some thought to the rain myself. The rain I had in mind was so fine you couldn’t be sure it was falling. But falling it certainly was, wetting snails and fences and cows. No one could stop the rain. No one could escape the rain. It would keep falling on everything fairly.

			The rain soon turned into an obscurely colored, translucent curtain that covered my consciousness.

			Sleep was coming for me.

			Now I could bring back the things I had lost, I thought. True, they had once been lost, but they were never destroyed. I closed my eyes and gave myself over to a deep sleep. Bob Dylan kept singing “A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall.”





40


			End of the World


			Birds


			By the time we reached Southern Pool, the snow was coming down with suffocating intensity. It fell as if the sky itself were breaking apart and crumbling onto the earth. The snow poured down into the pool as well, where it was soundlessly sucked into the eerie deep-blue surface—a gigantic round eye, the only hollow in the unbroken whiteness of the earth.

			My shadow and I stood in the snow, transfixed and silent, staring at the scene that lay before us. The air was filled with the same ghastly sound of water I had heard on my earlier excursion here, though muffled somewhat, perhaps by the snow itself, sounding more like a distant rumbling of the earth. The sky hung too low even to be called a sky, but I looked up at it and turned my gaze on the vague black shape of the southern wall that hovered beyond the dense curtain of falling snow. The wall had nothing more to say to me. This was a bleak, chilling landscape well suited to the name End of the World.

			As I stood still, the snow kept piling up on my shoulders and hat brim. Our footprints must have been completely covered by now. I glanced at my shadow, who was standing a little away from me. Brushing the snow off himself now and then, he was glaring at the surface of the pool with narrowed eyes.

			“This is the way out, no doubt about it,” he said. “The town can’t keep us closed in here any longer. We’ll be free as the birds.”

			He looked straight up at the sky, then closed his eyes and let the snow hit his face as if it were a bountiful rainfall. “What wonderful weather,” he said with a laugh. “Clear sky, warm breeze.” He seemed to be regaining his physical strength as if heavy shackles had been removed from him. He stepped toward me without help, lightly dragging his feet.

			“I can feel it,” he said. “The outside world is there beyond this pool. How about you? Are you still afraid to jump in?”

			I shook my head.

			He knelt down and untied his shoelaces.

			“We’ll freeze solid if we keep standing here like this. Let’s just jump right in—take our boots off and tie our belts together. Even if we get out, it won’t do us any good if we’re separated.”

			I removed the hat I had borrowed from the Colonel, shook the snow off, and looked at it in my hands. The hat was from a long-ago battle, the cloth rubbed thin here and there, the color faded almost to white. The Colonel had probably worn the thing for decades, taking good care of it. I shook the snow off again and put it back on.

			“I’m thinking of staying here,” I said.

			My shadow looked at me with eyes that seemed to have gone out of focus.

			“I’ve given it a lot of thought,” I said to him. “I’m sorry to do this to you, but I’ve looked at it every way I know how. I understand what it means for me to stay here alone. You’re right: the thing that makes the most sense is for the two of us to go back to our old world together. That’s the true reality for me, and to run away from it would be the wrong choice, I know that. But I just can’t bring myself to leave here.”

			Hands thrust in his pockets, my shadow slowly shook his head.

			“Why not?” he said. “Just the other day, you promised we’d escape from here together. That’s why I did such careful planning. That’s why you carried me all this way. What made you change your mind? The woman?”

			“That’s part of it, of course,” I said. “But she’s not the only reason. It’s because of something I discovered. That’s why I decided to stay here.”

			My shadow sighed. Then he looked up at the sky again.

			“It’s because you found her heart, isn’t it? You decided to get rid of me and live with her in the Forest, isn’t that it?”

			“Like I said, it’s not just that. It’s because I discovered what made this town. That’s why I have a duty to stay here, a responsibility. Don’t you want to know what made this town?”

			“No, I don’t,” my shadow said. “Because I know already. I’ve known it all along. You made the town yourself. You made everything in it—the wall, the river, the Forest, the library, the gate, even the winter. This pool, too, and this snow. I know all that.”

			“So why didn’t you tell me sooner?”

			“Because I knew you’d want to stay like this if I told you. But I was determined to take you out of here. The outside world is where you’re supposed to live.”

			My shadow sat down in the snow and shook his head from side to side.

			“But now that you’ve made your discovery, you won’t listen to me anymore, will you?”

			“I have my responsibilities,” I said. “I can’t just abandon the people and the world I chose to create. I do feel sorry about this for you, really sorry, and it’s painful for me to lose you, but I have to fulfill my responsibilities for what I’ve done. This is my own world. The wall is a wall that surrounds me myself, the river is a river that runs through me myself, and the smoke is smoke from burning me myself.”

			My shadow rose from the ground and stared hard at the quiet surface of the pool. Little by little, as I watched him standing there motionless in the steadily falling snow, he gave me the impression he was losing depth and returning to his original flatness. For a long time, neither of us said a word. All that came out of our mouths were white puffs of breath that rose in the air and vanished.

			“I see now there’s no hope I can talk you out of staying,” my shadow said. “But life in the Forest is a lot harder than you think. The Forest is different from the town in every way. The work you have to do just to survive there is harsh, and the winters are long and cruel. Once you enter the Forest, you can never come out again. You have to stay there for all eternity.”

			“Yes, I’ve thought a lot about that.”

			“But you have your heart set, don’t you?”

			“Yes, I haven’t changed my mind,” I said. “I won’t forget you, though. And I’m sure in the Forest I’ll recall things bit by bit from my old world. I’ll probably have a ton of things I can’t help remembering—people and places and light and songs.”

			My shadow folded his arms across his chest and kneaded his muscles. The snow piling up on his body cast strange shadows over him, shadows that appeared to expand and contract. He rubbed his hands together and lightly tilted his head as if listening to the sound they were making.

			“It’s time for me to go,” my shadow said. “It’s strange to think, though, that we can never meet again. I don’t know what to say. No clever last words come to mind.”

			I removed my hat, shook the snow off again, and put it back on.

			“I hope you’ll be happy,” my shadow said. “I’ve always loved you—and not just because I’m your shadow.”

			“Thanks,” I said.

			Long after the pool had swallowed my shadow and no ripples remained, I stood there looking at the water’s surface. It was as blue and serene as the eyes of the beasts. Having lost my shadow, I felt as if I had been left stranded, alone, in some remote corner of the universe with nowhere to go and nowhere to return to. This was the End of the World, and the End of the World was not connected with any place. There, the world breathed its last and remained utterly still.

			I turned my back on the pool and started walking through the snow toward West Hill. On the other side of West Hill was the town, where the river flowed, and where she and the concertina should be waiting for me.

			I saw a white bird flying south through the steadily falling snow. It passed over the wall and was swallowed by the snow-wrapped southern sky. When it was gone, all that was left was the crunch of my boots on the snow.





			Translator’s Afterword

			When, over pizza in Tokyo on October 31, 2019, Haruki asked me if I would be interested in doing a new translation of this novel, I was most surprised by his reason for asking: to restore the cuts introduced by Alfred Birnbaum in his 1991 Kodansha International version. I had never done a close comparison of Alfred’s translation with the original, but my impression had been that Alfred had made a few cosmetic cuts here and there, certainly not the hundred pages or so that Haruki said were missing. Now that I have made that comparison and seen that Haruki was right, I have all the more admiration for Alfred’s ability to present the reader in English with a vivid—even intense—experience of the Japanese original while paring it down substantially.

			Having been asked by Knopf editor Gary Fisketjon to cut The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle in 1997 because he had determined “it couldn’t be published successfully at such length” at that early stage of Haruki’s career abroad, I assume Alfred was faced with similar considerations in 1991. Now, however, more than thirty years later, the time is long past for a full-length translation of Haruki’s great early masterpiece, but I’m sure readers of the first translation will wonder about some of the differences between the two.

			I was most impressed with Alfred’s decision to translate the alternating End of the World and Hard-Boiled Wonderland narratives into present tense and past tense, respectively. This was a marvelous way to introduce a timeless, dreamlike quality into the timeless town called End of the World and to differentiate between the two first-person narrators. The narrator of End of the World calls himself “Boku” in Japanese, using the colloquial male first-person pronoun, while the Hard-Boiled Wonderland narrator calls himself the more formal and distanced “Watashi,” both of which can be translated into English only as “I.” While Japanese readers encounter alternating past-tense narratives, they know immediately which narrative they are in by whether “Boku” or “Watashi” is speaking. Alfred’s readers get something of that intuitive distinction by the difference in tense, but the use of the present tense causes occasional problems where the passage of time and sequencing enter into the story. That fact, plus my basic assignment to restore the original, convinced me that I should use the past tense in both of the parallel stories, with “I” as the narrator throughout.

			Readers of the earlier translation may wonder why the old “Professor” of that version has suddenly become the “Doctor” here and lost his idiosyncratic speech patterns. The old man is a freelance scientist with a PhD, a “doctor” (hakase), not a “professor” at an educational institution. He speaks like an old man but awkwardly appends certain polite expressions to his otherwise generally ordinary sentences. His speech may be oddly stilted but is not a dialect.

			The creepy creatures who lurk beneath the streets of Tokyo are named in Japanese with a neologism combining “dark” and “black” or “inky” (yami-kuro), which Alfred cleverly turned into “INKlings,” adding his own gloss, “Infra-Nocturnal Kappa,” to the first three letters. I’ve kept it simple by calling them the “Murks.” Alfred’s brilliant inventions “Calcutec” and “Semiotec” for keisanshi and kigōshi, the high-tech troops in the information war at the center of the plot, would be impossible to improve upon.

			Several commentators have pointed out that the map of the town in the front of the book looks rather like a picture of a brain and noted that, more than anything else, the novel is an imaginative exploration of the brain as the seat of the mind. The central term in this context is kokoro, most often translated by Alfred as “mind” and by me as “heart.” If this translation seems more emotional in tone, that difference probably has a lot to do with it. Unfortunately, “mind” is too exclusively cerebral and “heart” too tipped toward the emotional for kokoro, which straddles the full territory, including the moral, as in Natsume Sōseki’s classic 1911 novel, Kokoro. In some contexts, where kokoro refers to the contents of the psyche, I have tried to bridge the gap by referring to both thoughts and feelings.

			Lastly, there are two reasons for reversing the title from 1991’s Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World to End of the World and Hard-Boiled Wonderland. The latter follows the order of the original Japanese title. It also naturally permits the dropping of the “the” before End of the World, allowing that phrase to function as the name of the walled town.

			Several friends and colleagues have generously offered valuable advice as I made my way through the text, most notably Ted Woolsey, Ted Goossen, and Phil Gabriel. Haruki Murakami himself kindly responded to an annoying number of emails, but the one who tirelessly worked his way through every last word and particle was Shōsaku Maeda, who has been the guardian of my conscience since 2007.

			Jay Rubin

			October 22, 2021





TITLES IN EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY


			 				CHINUA ACHEBE

				The African Trilogy

				Things Fall Apart

				AESCHYLUS

				The Oresteia

				ISABEL ALLENDE

				The House of the Spirits

				MARTIN AMIS

				London Fields

				IVO ANDRIĆ

				The Bridge on the Drina

				THE ARABIAN NIGHTS

				ISAAC ASIMOV

				Foundation

				Foundation and Empire

				Second Foundation (in 1 vol.)

				MARGARET ATWOOD

				The Handmaid’s Tale

				JOHN JAMES AUDUBON

				The Audubon Reader

				AUGUSTINE

				The Confessions

				JANE AUSTEN

				Emma

				Mansfield Park

				Northanger Abbey

				Persuasion

				Pride and Prejudice

				Sanditon and Other Stories

				Sense and Sensibility

				THE BABUR NAMA

				JAMES BALDWIN

				The Fire Next Time,

				Nobody Knows My Name,

				No Name in the Street,

				The Devil Finds Work (in 1 vol.)

				Giovanni’s Room

				Go Tell It on the Mountain

				HONORÉ DE BALZAC

				Cousin Bette

				Eugénie Grandet

				Old Goriot

				MIKLÓS BÁNFFY

				The Transylvanian Trilogy (in 2 vols)

				JOHN BANVILLE

				The Book of Evidence

				The Sea (in 1 vol.)

				JULIAN BARNES

				Flaubert’s Parrot

				A History of the World in

				10½ Chapters (in 1 vol.)

				GIORGIO BASSANI

				The Garden of the Finzi-Continis

				SIMONE DE BEAUVOIR

				The Second Sex

				SAMUEL BECKETT

				Molloy, Malone Dies,

				The Unnamable

				SAUL BELLOW

				The Adventures of Augie March

				HECTOR BERLIOZ

				The Memoirs of Hector Berlioz

				THE BIBLE

				(King James Version)

				The Old Testament

				The New Testament

				WILLIAM BLAKE

				Poems and Prophecies

				GIOVANNI BOCCACCIO

				Decameron

				JORGE LUIS BORGES

				Ficciones

				JAMES BOSWELL

				The Life of Samuel Johnson

				The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides

				ELIZABETH BOWEN

				Collected Stories

				RAY BRADBURY

				The Stories of Ray Bradbury

				JEAN ANTHELME

				BRILLAT-SAVARIN

				The Physiology of Taste

				ANNE BRONTË

				Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall

				CHARLOTTE BRONTË

				Jane Eyre

				Villette

				Shirley and The Professor

				EMILY BRONTË

				Wuthering Heights

				MIKHAIL BULGAKOV

				The Master and Margarita

				The White Guard

				EDMUND BURKE

				Reflections on the Revolution in France and Other Writings

				SAMUEL BUTLER

				The Way of all Flesh

				A. S. BYATT

				Possession

				LORD BYRON

				Byron’s Travels: Poems, Letters,

				and Journals

				JAMES M. CAIN

				The Postman Always Rings Twice

				Double Indemnity

				Mildred Pierce

				Selected Stories (in 1 vol. US only)

				ITALO CALVINO

				If on a winter’s night a traveler

				ALBERT CAMUS

				The Outsider (UK)

				The Stranger (US)

				The Plague, The Fall, Exile and the Kingdom, and Selected Essays (in 1 vol.)

				PETER CAREY

				Oscar and Lucinda

				True History of the Kelly Gang (in 1 vol.)

				ANGELA CARTER

				The Bloody Chamber

				Wise Children

				Fireworks (in 1 vol.)

				GIACOMO CASANOVA

				History of My Life

				WILLA CATHER

				Death Comes for the Archbishop (US only)

				My Ántonia

				O Pioneers!

				BENVENUTO CELLINI

				The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini

				MIGUEL DE CERVANTES

				Don Quixote

				RAYMOND CHANDLER

				The novels (in 2 vols)

				Collected Stories

				GEOFFREY CHAUCER

				Canterbury Tales

				ANTON CHEKHOV

				The Complete Short Novels

				My Life and Other Stories

				The Steppe and Other Stories

				G. K. CHESTERTON

				The Everyman Chesterton

				KATE CHOPIN

				The Awakening

				SANDRA CISNEROS

				The House on Mango Street

				CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ

				On War

				S. T. COLERIDGE

				Poems

				WILKIE COLLINS

				The Moonstone

				The Woman in White

				CONFUCIUS

				The Analects

				JOSEPH CONRAD

				Heart of Darkness

				Lord Jim

				Nostromo

				The Secret Agent

				Typhoon and Other Stories

				Under Western Eyes

				Victory

				JULIO CORTÁZAR

				Hopscotch

				Blow-Up and Other Stories

				We Love Glenda So Much and Other Tales (in 1 vol.)

				THOMAS CRANMER

				The Book of Common Prayer (UK only)

				ROALD DAHL

				Collected Stories

				DANTE ALIGHIERI

				The Divine Comedy

				CHARLES DARWIN

				The Origin of Species

				The Voyage of the Beagle (in 1 vol.)

				DANIEL DEFOE

				Moll Flanders

				Robinson Crusoe

				CHARLES DICKENS

				Barnaby Rudge

				Bleak House

				A Christmas Carol and Other Christmas Books

				David Copperfield

				Dombey and Son

				Great Expectations

				Hard Times

				Little Dorrit

				Martin Chuzzlewit

				The Mystery of Edwin Drood

				Nicholas Nickleby

				The Old Curiosity Shop

				Oliver Twist

				Our Mutual Friend

				The Pickwick Papers

				A Tale of Two Cities

				DENIS DIDEROT

				Memoirs of a Nun

				JOAN DIDION

				We Tell Ourselves Stories in Order to Live (US only)

				JOHN DONNE

				The Complete English Poems

				FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY

				The Adolescent

				The Brothers Karamazov

				Crime and Punishment

				Demons

				The Double and The Gambler

				The Idiot

				Notes from a Dead House

				Notes from Underground

				ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE

				The Hound of the Baskervilles

				Study in Scarlet

				The Sign of Four (in 1 vol.)

				W. E. B. DU BOIS

				The Souls of Black Folk (US only)

				ALEXANDRE DUMAS

				The Count of Monte Cristo

				The Three Musketeers

				DAPHNE DU MAURIER

				Rebecca

				MARGUERITE DURAS

				The Lover

				Wartime Notebooks

				Practicalities (in 1 vol.)

				UMBERTO ECO

				The Name of the Rose

				GEORGE ELIOT

				Adam Bede

				Daniel Deronda

				Middlemarch

				The Mill on the Floss

				Silas Marner

				JAMES ELLROY

				The L.A. Quartet

				The Underworld U.S.A. Trilogy (2 vols)

				JOHN EVELYN

				The Diary of John Evelyn (UK only)

				J. G. FARRELL

				The Siege of Krishnapur

				Troubles (in 1 vol.)

				WILLIAM FAULKNER

				The Sound and the Fury (UK only)

				HENRY FIELDING

				Joseph Andrews and Shamela (UK only)

				Tom Jones

				F. SCOTT FITZGERALD

				The Great Gatsby

				This Side of Paradise

				PENELOPE FITZGERALD

				The Bookshop

				The Gate of Angels

				The Blue Flower (in 1 vol.)

				Offshore

				Human Voices

				The Beginning of Spring (in 1 vol.)

				GUSTAVE FLAUBERT

				Madame Bovary

				FORD MADOX FORD

				The Good Soldier

				Parade’s End

				RICHARD FORD

				The Bascombe Novels

				E. M. FORSTER

				A Room with a View, Where Angels Fear to Tread (in 1 vol., US only)

				Howards End

				A Passage to India

				ANNE FRANK

				The Diary of a Young Girl (US only)

				BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

				The Autobiography and Other Writings

				GEORGE MACDONALD FRASER

				Flashman

				Flash for Freedom!

				Flashman in the Great Game (in 1 vol.)

				MAVIS GALLANT

				The Collected Stories

				ELIZABETH GASKELL

				Mary Barton

				EDWARD GIBBON

				The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire

				Vols 1 to 3: The Western Empire

				Vols 4 to 6: The Eastern Empire

				KAHLIL GIBRAN

				The Collected Works

				J. W. VON GOETHE

				Selected Works

				NIKOLAI GOGOL

				The Collected Tales

				Dead Souls

				IVAN GONCHAROV

				Oblomov

				GÜNTER GRASS

				The Tin Drum

				ROBERT GRAVES

				Goodbye to All That

				GRAHAM GREENE

				Brighton Rock

				The Human Factor

				VASILY GROSSMAN

				Life and Fate

				DASHIELL HAMMETT

				The Maltese Falcon

				The Thin Man

				Red Harvest (in 1 vol.)

				The Dain Curse, The Glass Key, and Selected Stories (in 1 vol.)

				THOMAS HARDY

				Far From the Madding Crowd

				Jude the Obscure

				The Mayor of Casterbridge

				The Return of the Native

				Tess of the d’Urbervilles

				The Woodlanders

				JAROSLAV HAŠEK

				The Good Soldier Švejk

				NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

				The Scarlet Letter

				JOSEPH HELLER

				Catch-22

				ERNEST HEMINGWAY

				A Farewell to Arms

				The Collected Stories (UK only)

				The Sun Also Rises

				GEORGE HERBERT

				The Complete English Works

				HERODOTUS

				The Histories

				MICHAEL HERR

				Dispatches (US only)

				PATRICIA HIGHSMITH

				The Talented Mr. Ripley

				Ripley Under Ground

				Ripley’s Game (in 1 vol.)

				CHESTER HIMES

				The Essential Harlem Detectives

				HINDU SCRIPTURES

				(tr. R. C. Zaehner)

				JAMES HOGG

				Confessions of a Justified Sinner

				HOMER

				The Iliad

				The Odyssey

				VICTOR HUGO

				The Hunchback of Notre-Dame

				Les Misérables

				ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT

				Selected Writings

				ALDOUS HUXLEY

				Brave New World

				KAZUO ISHIGURO

				Never Let Me Go

				The Remains of the Day

				HENRY JAMES

				The Ambassadors

				The Awkward Age

				The Bostonians

				The Golden Bowl

				The Portrait of a Lady

				The Princess Casamassima

				Washington Square

				The Wings of the Dove

				Collected Stories (in 2 vols)

				HA JIN

				Waiting

				JAMES WELDON JOHNSON

				The Autobiography of an

				Ex-Colored Man

				SAMUEL JOHNSON

				A Journey to the Western

				Islands of Scotland

				JAMES JOYCE

				Dubliners

				A Portrait of the Artist as

				a Young Man

				Ulysses

				FRANZ KAFKA

				Collected Stories

				The Castle

				The Trial

				JOHN KEATS

				The Poems

				SØREN KIERKEGAARD

				Fear and Trembling and

				The Book on Adler

				MAXINE HONG KINGSTON

				The Woman Warrior and China Men (US only)

				RUDYARD KIPLING

				Collected Stories

				Kim

				THE KORAN

				(tr. Marmaduke Pickthall)

				GIUSEPPE TOMASI DI LAMPEDUSA

				The Leopard

				WILLIAM LANGLAND

				Piers Plowman with (anon.) Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Pearl, Sir Orfeo (UK only)

				LAO-TZU

				Tao Te Ching

				NELLA LARSEN

				The Complete Fiction

				D. H. LAWRENCE

				Collected Stories

				Lady Chatterley’s Lover

				The Rainbow

				Sons and Lovers

				Women in Love

				HALLDÓR LAXNESS

				Independent People

				MIKHAIL LERMONTOV

				A Hero of Our Time

				DORIS LESSING

				Stories

				JONATHAN LETHEM

				Motherless Brooklyn

				The Fortress of Solitude (in 1 vol.)

				PRIMO LEVI

				If This is a Man and The Truce (UK only)

				The Periodic Table

				THE MABINOGION

				NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI

				The Prince

				NAGUIB MAHFOUZ

				The Cairo Trilogy

				Three Novels of Ancient Egypt

				NADEZHDA MANDELSTAM

				Hope Against Hope

				THOMAS MANN

				Buddenbrooks

				Collected Stories (UK only)

				Death in Venice and Other Stories

				(US only)

				Doctor Faustus

				Joseph and His Brothers

				The Magic Mountain

				KATHERINE MANSFIELD

				The Garden Party and Other

				Stories

				ALESSANDRO MANZONI

				The Betrothed

				MARCUS AURELIUS

				Meditations

				GABRIEL GARCÍA MÁRQUEZ

				The General in His Labyrinth

				Love in the Time of Cholera

				One Hundred Years of Solitude

				ANDREW MARVELL

				The Complete Poems

				W. SOMERSET MAUGHAM

				Collected Stories

				Of Human Bondage

				The Skeptical Romancer (US only)

				GUY DE MAUPASSANT

				Selected Stories

				CORMAC McCARTHY

				The Border Trilogy

				IAN McEWAN

				Atonement

				HERMAN MELVILLE

				The Complete Shorter Fiction

				Moby-Dick

				JOHN STUART MILL

				On Liberty and Utilitarianism

				JOHN MILTON

				The Complete English Poems

				YUKIO MISHIMA

				The Temple of the Golden Pavilion

				NANCY MITFORD

				The Pursuit of Love

				Love in a Cold Climate (in 1 vol.)

				MARY WORTLEY MONTAGU

				Letters

				MICHEL DE MONTAIGNE

				The Complete Works

				THOMAS MORE

				Utopia

				TONI MORRISON

				Beloved

				Song of Solomon

				LORRIE MOORE

				Collected Stories

				JOHN MUIR

				Selected Writings

				ALICE MUNRO

				Carried Away: A Personal Selection of Stories

				HARUKI MURAKAMI

				End of the World and Hard-boiled Wonderland (US only)

				MURASAKI SHIKIBU

				The Tale of Genji

				IRIS MURDOCH

				The Sea, The Sea

				A Severed Head (in 1 vol.)

				VLADIMIR NABOKOV

				Lolita

				Pale Fire

				Pnin

				Speak, Memory

				V. S. NAIPAUL

				A Bend in the River

				Collected Short Fiction (US only)

				A House for Mr Biswas

				R. K. NARAYAN

				Swami and Friends

				The Bachelor of Arts

				The Dark Room

				The English Teacher (in 1 vol.)

				Mr Sampath – The Printer of Malgudi

				The Financial Expert

				Waiting for the Mahatma (in 1 vol.)

				IRÈNE NÉMIROVSKY

				David Golder

				The Ball

				Snow in Autumn

				The Courilof Affair (in 1 vol.)

				FLANN O’BRIEN

				The Complete Novels

				FRANK O’CONNOR

				The Best of Frank O’Connor

				BEN OKRI

				The Famished Road

				MICHAEL ONDAATJE

				The English Patient

				GEORGE ORWELL

				Animal Farm

				Nineteen Eighty-Four

				Essays

				Burmese Days, Keep the Aspidistra

				Flying, Coming Up for Air (in 1 vol.)

				OVID

				The Metamorphoses

				THOMAS PAINE

				Rights of Man and Common Sense

				ORHAN PAMUK

				My Name is Red

				Snow

				BORIS PASTERNAK

				Doctor Zhivago

				SAMUEL PEPYS

				The Diary of Samuel Pepys

				SYLVIA PLATH

				The Bell Jar (US only)

				PLATO

				The Republic

				Symposium and Phaedrus

				EDGAR ALLAN POE

				The Complete Stories

				MARCO POLO

				The Travels of Marco Polo

				HENRIK PONTOPPIDAN

				Lucky Per

				MARCEL PROUST

				In Search of Lost Time (in 4 vols, UK only)

				PHILIP PULLMAN

				His Dark Materials

				ALEXANDER PUSHKIN

				Novels, Tales, Journeys

				FRANÇOIS RABELAIS

				Gargantua and Pantagruel

				ERICH MARIA REMARQUE

				All Quiet on the Western Front

				MARY RENAULT

				The King Must Die

				The Bull from the Sea (in 1 vol.)

				JOSEPH ROTH

				The Radetzky March

				Rebellion

				JEAN-JACQUES ROUSSEAU

				Confessions

				The Social Contract and the Discourses

				SALMAN RUSHDIE

				Midnight’s Children

				JOHN RUSKIN

				Praeterita and Dilecta

				OLIVER SACKS

				The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat

				PAUL SCOTT

				The Raj Quartet (in 2 vols)

				WALTER SCOTT

				Rob Roy

				WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

				Comedies Vols 1 and 2

				Histories Vols 1 and 2

				Romances

				Sonnets and Narrative Poems

				Tragedies Vols 1 and 2

				MARY SHELLEY

				Frankenstein

				JANE SMILEY

				A Thousand Acres

				ADAM SMITH

				The Wealth of Nations

				ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN

				One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich

				SOPHOCLES

				The Theban Plays

				MURIEL SPARK

				The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,

				The Girls of Slender Means, The Driver’s Seat, The Only Problem (in 1 vol.)

				EDWARD ST AUBYN

				The Patrick Melrose Novels (in 1 vol.)

				CHRISTINA STEAD

				The Man Who Loved Children

				JOHN STEINBECK

				The Grapes of Wrath (UK only)

				STENDHAL

				The Charterhouse of Parma

				Scarlet and Black

				LAURENCE STERNE

				Tristram Shandy

				ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

				The Master of Ballantrae and Weir of Hermiston

				Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde and Other Stories

				BRAM STOKER

				Dracula

				HARRIET BEECHER STOWE

				Uncle Tom’s Cabin

				SUN TZU

				The Art of War

				ITALO SVEVO

				Zeno’s Conscience

				GRAHAM SWIFT

				Waterland

				JONATHAN SWIFT

				Gulliver’s Travels

				TACITUS

				Annals and Histories

				RABINDRANATH TAGORE

				The Best of Tagore

				JUNICHIRŌ TANIZAKI

				The Makioka Sisters

				W. M. THACKERAY

				Vanity Fair

				HENRY DAVID THOREAU

				Walden

				ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE

				Democracy in America

				LEO TOLSTOY

				Collected Shorter Fiction (in 2 vols)

				Anna Karenina

				Childhood, Boyhood and Youth

				The Cossacks

				War and Peace

				ANTHONY TROLLOPE

				Barchester Towers

				Can You Forgive Her?

				Doctor Thorne

				The Duke’s Children

				The Eustace Diamonds

				Framley Parsonage

				The Last Chronicle of Barset

				Phineas Finn

				The Small House at Allington

				The Warden

				IVAN TURGENEV

				Fathers and Children

				First Love and Other Stories

				A Sportsman’s Notebook

				MARK TWAIN

				Collected Nonfiction (in 2 vols)

				The Complete Short Stories

				Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn

				FRED UHLMAN

				Reunion

				JOHN UPDIKE

				The Complete Henry Bech

				Rabbit Angstrom

				GIORGIO VASARI

				Lives of the Painters, Sculptors and

				Architects (in 2 vols)

				JULES VERNE

				Journey to the Centre of the Earth

				Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea

				Round the World in Eighty Days (in 1 vol.)

				VIRGIL

				The Aeneid

				VOLTAIRE

				Candide and Other Stories

				HORACE WALPOLE

				Selected Letters

				EVELYN WAUGH

				(US only)

				Black Mischief, Scoop, The Loved

				One, The Ordeal of Gilbert

				Pinfold (in 1 vol.)

				Brideshead Revisited

				Decline and Fall

				A Handful of Dust

				The Sword of Honour Trilogy

				Waugh Abroad: Collected Travel

				Writing

				The Complete Short Stories

				H. G. WELLS

				The Time Machine,

				The Invisible Man,

				The War of the Worlds (in 1 vol.)

				EDITH WHARTON

				The Age of Innocence

				The Custom of the Country

				Ethan Frome, Summer, Bunner Sisters (in 1 vol.)

				The House of Mirth

				The Reef

				PATRICK WHITE

				Voss

				COLSON WHITEHEAD

				The Intuitionist

				OSCAR WILDE

				Plays, Prose Writings and Poems

				P. G. WODEHOUSE

				The Best of Wodehouse

				MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT

				A Vindication of the Rights of Woman

				VIRGINIA WOOLF

				To the Lighthouse

				Mrs Dalloway

				Orlando

				A Room of One’s Own

				WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

				Selected Poems (UK only)

				RICHARD YATES

				Revolutionary Road

				The Easter Parade

				Eleven Kinds of Loneliness (in 1 vol.)

				W. B. YEATS

				The Poems (UK only)

				EMILE ZOLA

				Germinal (UK only)





				What’s next on

your reading list?


			Discover your next

great read!



			Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this author.

			Sign up now.



		_149140807_





